RESOLUTION 
In the matter of Representative Maxine Waters. 
Whereas Representative Waters has repeatedly called for vio-
lence, civil unrest, harassment, and assault of public and 
private persons throughout her tenure as a Member of 
Congress; 
Whereas in the wake of the Rodney King riots in May 1992, 
Representative Waters said, ‘‘If you call it a riot, it 
sounds like it was just a bunch of crazy people who went 
out and did bad things for no reason. I maintain it was 
somewhat understandable, if not acceptable. So I call it 
a rebellion.’’; 
Whereas, on January 27, 2007, Representative Waters told 
an anti-Iraq war rally, ‘‘My name is Maxine Waters and 
I am not afraid of George Bush. My name is Maxine 
Waters and I’m not intimidated by Dick Cheney. My 
19:29 Apr 21, 2021
HR327
2 
•HRES 327 IH 
name is Maxine Waters and I have to get rid of Rums-
feld.’’; 
Whereas, on October 20, 2017, Representative Waters told a 
crowd at an LGBTQ Youth Gala, ‘‘With this kind of in-
spiration, I will go and take Trump out tonight.’’; 
Whereas, on June 23, 2018, Representative Waters told a 
crowd, ‘‘If you see anybody from [President Trump’s cab-
inet] in a restaurant, in a department store, at a gasoline 
station, you get out and you create a crowd and you push 
back on them! And you tell them that they are not wel-
come, anymore, anywhere.’’; 
Whereas, on September 8, 2018, Representative Waters told 
a crowd of her supporters in Los Angeles, ‘‘I did not 
threaten [Trump] constituents and supporters. I do that 
all the time, but I didn’t do that that time.’’; 
Whereas, on April 17, 2021, Representative Waters told vio-
lent protesters, ‘‘We’ve got to stay on the street, and 
we’ve got to get more active, we’ve got to get more 
confrontational. We’ve got to make sure that they know 
that we mean business.’’; 
Whereas, Representative Waters traveled across State lines to 
promote and encourage riots that led to violence and 
community destruction which is a felony punishable by 
up to five years in prison (18 U.S.C. 2101); 
Whereas Representative Waters has threatened a jury if they 
do not find a guilty verdict in the trial of Derek Chauvin; 
Whereas following Representative Waters’ speech in Brooklyn 
Center, Minnesota, the following events occurred: 
(1) More than one hundred protesters violated the 
11 p.m. city curfew after Representative Waters told 
them to ‘‘stay on the street’’; 
19:29 Apr 21, 2021
HR327
3 
•HRES 327 IH 
(2) The Minnesota Operation Safety Net, a coalition 
of police agencies, found bags of rocks, paint-filled plastic 
eggs and paintball guns at the scene intended for use 
against police; 
(3) National Guardsmen were fired upon in the early 
hours of April 18, 2021; 
Whereas, throughout her time as a sitting Member of Con-
gress, Representative Waters has repeatedly incited vio-
lence through her harmful rhetoric and led violent mobs 
in the destruction of public and private property and in 
protest against officers of the United States, including 
local police and national guardsmen; 
Whereas Representative Waters has violated House Rule 23, 
Clause 1, which states that ‘‘A Member, Delegate, Resi-
dent Commissioner, officer, or employee of the House 
shall conduct himself at all times in a manner that shall 
reflect creditably on the House.’’; and 
Whereas the United States House of Representatives finds 
the words and actions of Representative Waters abhor-
rent and harmful to public safety, the rule of law, and 
the material security of the people of the United States: 
Now, therefore, be it 
Resolved, That pursuant to article I, section 5, clause 
1
2 of the United States Constitution, Representative Max-
2
ine Waters, be, and she hereby is, expelled from the House 
3
of Representatives for inciting violence and engaging in 
4
rioting and protest against citizens and officers of the 
5
United States, including President Donald J. Trump. 
6
19:29 Apr 21, 2021
HR327
4 
•HRES 327 IH 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. 
1
This resolution may be cited as the ‘‘Expel Maxine 
2
Waters Resolution for Incitement of Violence and Rioting 
3
against the United States’’. 
4
Æ 
19:29 Apr 21, 2021
HR327
