RESOLUTION 
Condemning and censuring Representative Marjorie Taylor 
Greene of Georgia. 
Whereas, in 2018 and 2019, Representative Marjorie Taylor 
Greene liked several posts and comments on Facebook 
demonstrating her support for the execution of several 
members of the Democratic Party; 
Whereas, in April 2018, a Facebook commenter asked ‘‘Now 
do we get to hang them?? Meaning H & O???’’ referring 
22:28 Feb 02, 2021
HR83
2 
•HRES 83 IH 
to former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and former 
President Barack Obama; 
Whereas Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene replied to 
the Facebook comment, ‘‘Stage is being set. Players are 
being put in place. We must be patient. This must be 
done perfectly or liberal judges would let them off’’; 
Whereas Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene liked a 
Facebook comment in January 2019 that stated, ‘‘a bul-
let to the head would be quicker’’ in reference to the re-
moval of the Speaker of the House of Representatives 
Nancy Pelosi; 
Whereas, in January 2019, Representative Marjorie Taylor 
Greene started circulating a petition to impeach Speaker 
Pelosi for crimes of treason; 
Whereas Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene called for 
the execution of Speaker Pelosi in several videos stating 
that she was ‘‘a traitor to our country, she’s guilty of 
treason’’ and should ‘‘suffer death or she’ll be in prison’’; 
Whereas Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene also said 
that Speaker Pelosi, ‘‘took an oath to protect American 
citizens and uphold our laws. And she gives aid and com-
fort to our enemies who illegally invade our land. That’s 
what treason is. And by our law representatives and sen-
ators can be kicked out and no longer serve in our gov-
ernment. And it’s, uh, it’s a crime punishable by death 
is what treason is. Nancy Pelosi is guilty of treason’’; 
Whereas Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene has also 
liked comments that stated, ‘‘Trump already said there 
were some great ones working with FBI but some have 
fallen and quite frankly need to be hung for TREA-
SON!’’ and ‘‘These Traitors need to be put to death as 
22:28 Feb 02, 2021
HR83
3 
•HRES 83 IH 
an example of what will no longer be tolerated in our 
country!!!’’; 
Whereas Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene has contin-
ued efforts to cast doubt upon the results of the 2020 
Presidential election by espousing conspiracy theories and 
by threatening and inciting violence, which has the poten-
tial to lead to tragic consequences, causing irreparable 
damage toward the people’s faith in our democratic proc-
ess; and 
Whereas Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene’s comments 
and actions are dangerous, signal a threat to other Mem-
bers of Congress, and brought shame on the House of 
Representatives: Now, therefore, be it 
Resolved, That— 
1
(1) Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene of 
2
Georgia be censured; 
3
(2) Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene 
4
forthwith present herself in the well of the House of 
5
Representatives for the pronouncement of censure; 
6
(3) Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene be 
7
censured with the public reading of this resolution 
8
by the Speaker; and 
9
(4) Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene 
10
should immediately resign from office to allow an in-
11
dividual more befitting of the respect of the people 
12
of the United States to represent Georgia’s 14th 
13
District. 
14
Æ 
22:28 Feb 02, 2021
HR83
