RESOLUTION 
Expressing support for the designation of May 2, 2022, 
as ‘‘Dr. John E. Fryer Day’’. 
Whereas Dr. John E. Fryer practiced psychiatry in Philadel-
phia, Pennsylvania, from 1967 to 2003, and was a pro-
fessor of psychiatry and family and community medicine 
at Temple University School of Medicine; 
Whereas, beginning in 1952, the American Psychiatric Asso-
ciation (referred to in this preamble as the ‘‘APA’’) clas-
sified homosexuality as a mental disorder in the Diag-
nostic and Statistical Manual (referred to in this pre-
amble as the ‘‘DSM’’) and in the revised DSM–II; 
Whereas, as a result of the classification and resulting thera-
peutic protocol, homosexuals in the United States were 
02:36 Apr 01, 2022
HR1019
2 
•HRES 1019 IH 
subject to chemical castration, electric shock therapy, 
mental institutionalization, and lobotomies; 
Whereas the classification was used to demonize homosexuals 
and other non-heterosexuals as perverts to be feared and 
loathed and to buttress homophobic statutes and regula-
tions; 
Whereas many States would not grant professional licenses to 
known homosexuals and would revoke licenses from indi-
viduals who were later found to be homosexual; 
Whereas, in 1971, gay rights pioneers Frank Kameny and 
Barbara Gittings successfully petitioned the APA for a 
panel on homosexuality at the APA annual meeting; 
Whereas Kameny and Gittings sought to have a gay psychia-
trist on the panel, but no one would risk losing their li-
cense and professional standing by admitting publicly to 
being homosexual; 
Whereas Dr. Fryer agreed to appear on the panel under the 
pseudonym of Dr. Henry Anonymous, while in a mask 
and using a voice modulator; 
Whereas Dr. Fryer’s testimony on May 2, 1972, at the APA 
annual meeting was so powerful that the APA undertook 
studies to determine whether the classification of homo-
sexuality as a mental illness was based on science or prej-
udice; 
Whereas, in 1973, after study and review, the members of 
the APA voted to declassify homosexuality as a mental 
illness; 
Whereas, as a result of Dr. John E. Fryer’s courage and ar-
ticulate presentation as the first psychiatrist in the 
United States to speak publicly about his homosexuality, 
the course of civil rights for individuals who are lesbian, 
02:36 Apr 01, 2022
HR1019
3 
•HRES 1019 IH 
gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (referred to in this 
preamble as ‘‘LGBTQ’’) was seminally advanced; 
Whereas, during the human immunodeficiency virus and ac-
quired immunodeficiency syndrome (referred to in this 
preamble ‘‘HIV/AIDS’’) crisis, Dr. John Fryer was 
among the first, if not the first, psychiatrists to provide 
professional services to individuals with HIV/AIDS and 
individuals who had lost loved ones to HIV/AIDS; 
Whereas Dr. John Fryer’s contributions to the LGBTQ com-
munity have been adapted into the celebrated theater 
production entitled ‘‘217 Boxes of Dr. Henry Anony-
mous’’ and the movie ‘‘CURED’’; 
Whereas the Philadelphia Historical Commission has des-
ignated the John. E. Fryer House at 138 West Walnut 
Lane, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, as historic in the 
Philadelphia Register of Historic Places; 
Whereas the Philadelphia City Council proclaimed May 2, 
2022, as John Fryer Day in the city of Philadelphia to 
mark the 50th anniversary of his testimony on homosex-
uality at the 1972 APA annual meeting and to com-
memorate his momentous and seminal LGBTQ civil 
rights activism; and 
Whereas Dr. John Fryer is a civil rights hero and was des-
ignated by the Equality Forum as an LGBT History 
Month Icon in 2016: Now, therefore, be it 
Resolved, That the House of Representatives— 
1
(1) expresses support for the designation of 
2
‘‘Dr. John E. Fryer Day’’; and 
3
(2) encourages the Federal Government, States, 
4
and localities to continue supporting the teaching of 
5
02:36 Apr 01, 2022
HR1019
4 
•HRES 1019 IH 
lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (re-
1
ferred to in this resolution as ‘‘LGBTQ’’) history, 
2
including the contributions of Dr. John E. Fryer 
3
and other LGBTQ civil rights heroes. 
4
Æ 
02:36 Apr 01, 2022
HR1019
