RESOLUTION 
Censuring Representative Paul Gosar of Arizona. 
Whereas in January 2021, the Committee on the Judiciary 
of the House of Representatives released its report, ‘‘Ma-
terials in Support of H. Res. 24, Impeaching Donald 
John Trump, President of the United States, for High 
Crimes and Misdemeanors’’, which stated: 
‘‘To enter the Capitol, the insurrectionists dese-
crated the Capitol including by, among other acts, ran-
sacking and looting Member offices, stealing and de-
stroying electronics, government property, and sensitive 
materials, and engaging in violence, which eventually re-
02:13 May 21, 2021
HR420
2 
•HRES 420 IH 
sulted in at least five deaths. To enter the Capitol, the 
insurrectionists overwhelmed Capitol Police, scaled walls, 
used makeshift ladders, shattered windows, and overran 
barricades. Although Capitol Police locked the gallery 
and floor doors and Members and staff barricaded them-
selves in offices, the mob stormed Member offices, van-
dalizing and smashing property, overturning furniture, 
and, in some cases, stealing electronics. 
‘‘Insurrectionists also severely damaged the building 
itself. They left bullet marks in the building walls, looted 
art, destroyed monuments, including a commemorative 
display honoring late congressman John Lewis, smeared 
their feces in several hallways, and fatally injured a Cap-
itol Police officer. Several brandished the Confederate 
battle flag and extremist paraphernalia. 
‘‘By approximately 2:45 PM, insurrectionists had 
breached the House and Senate floors and began posing 
for photographs, including on the dais where Vice Presi-
dent Mike Pence had been presiding just moments be-
fore. Other images showed rioters smoking marijuana in 
Capitol rooms. The insurrectionists had, among their 
gear and weaponry, bullet-proof vests, zip ties used for 
handcuffs, metal knuckles, sticks and poles, knives, and 
firearms; in total, at least six handguns were recovered 
from subsequent arrests. Videos confirmed that these in-
02:13 May 21, 2021
HR420
3 
•HRES 420 IH 
surrectionists were openly threatening specific Members 
of Congress. For example, some of the attackers said, 
‘Tell Pelosi we’re coming for that [expletive]’.’’; 
Whereas the Committee’s report also stated, ‘‘During the at-
tack, Vice President Pence, Members of Congress, and 
staff were sheltering in secure locations. Spurred by the 
false claims of fraud, some of the attackers said, ‘Tell 
Pelosi we’re coming for that [expletive]’, and ‘Hang Mike 
Pence’. Some attackers carried zip ties intended to be 
used as handcuffs. A noose was hung outside the Capitol. 
Multiple members of the Capitol Police were severely in-
jured or killed.’’; 
Whereas the Committee’s report also stated, ‘‘Later video 
would emerge of insurrectionists inside the Capitol chant-
ing ‘Hang Mike Pence!’ ’’; 
Whereas on May 12, 2021, during a hearing entitled ‘‘The 
Capitol Insurrection: Unexplained Delays and Unan-
swered Questions’’ held by the Committee on Oversight 
and Reform of the House of Representatives, Representa-
tive Paul Gosar of Arizona, while questioning former Act-
ing Attorney General Jeffrey A. Rosen about the death 
of Ashli Babbitt, asked ‘‘Who executed Ashli Babbitt?’’, 
when she was shot by Capitol Police officers as she tried 
to climb through a broken window in the Speakers Lobby 
right outside the chamber of the House of Representa-
tives; 
Whereas at the hearing, Representative Gosar stated, ‘‘Out-
right propaganda and lies are being used to unleash the 
national security state against law abiding U.S. citizens, 
especially Trump voters. The FBI is fishing through 
homes of veterans and citizens with no criminal records 
02:13 May 21, 2021
HR420
4 
•HRES 420 IH 
and restricting the liberties of individuals that had never 
been accused of a crime. Mr. Biden calls January 6th the 
worst attack since the Civil War. A president was im-
peached for his alleged role in that riot. It was reported 
early, totally unconfirmed, that an armed insurrection, 
‘beat a police officer to death with a fire extinguisher’. 
The government has even enlisted Americans to turn in 
their own neighbors.’’; 
Whereas at the hearing, Representative Gosar also stated, 
‘‘But the truth is being censored and covered up. As a 
result, the DOJ is harassing--harassing peaceful patriots 
across the country.’’; and 
Whereas undermining the seriousness of the insurrection that 
occurred on January 6 against the United States Capitol 
and 
Members 
of 
Congress, 
and 
dangerously 
mischaracterizing the events of that day, disrespects the 
sacrifices made by law enforcement officers on that day 
and creates danger by emboldening and legitimizing fu-
ture actors who would attack the United States Capitol 
in a similar manner: Now, therefore, be it 
Resolved, That— 
1
(1) Representative Paul Gosar of Arizona be 
2
hereby censured; 
3
(2) Representative Paul Gosar of Arizona forth-
4
with present himself in the well of the House of 
5
Representatives for the pronouncement of censure; 
6
and 
7
02:13 May 21, 2021
HR420
5 
•HRES 420 IH 
(3) Representative Paul Gosar of Arizona be 
1
censured with the public reading of this resolution 
2
by the Speaker. 
3
Æ 
02:13 May 21, 2021
HR420
