RESOLUTION 
Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that 
the United States expects the Government of Russia, 
led by Vladimir Putin, to comply with the Geneva Con-
ventions and their Additional Protocols, also known as 
the Humanitarian Law of Armed Conflicts. 
Whereas, on February 24, 2022, Russia launched a military 
assault on Ukraine which has led to the death of thou-
sands and displaced millions of Ukrainians, now refugees; 
Whereas, on February 28, 2022, Karim A.A. Khan QC, 
International Criminal Court Prosecutor, opened an in-
vestigation into the situation in Ukraine; 
Whereas the Armed Forces of Ukraine are the official mili-
tary forces of Ukraine, and they are the principal defen-
23:32 Jun 17, 2022
HR1188
2 
•HRES 1188 IH 
sive force against any aggression against the sovereign 
state of Ukraine; 
Whereas President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky created 
the International Legion of Defense of Ukraine, con-
sisting of foreign citizens wishing to join the resistance 
against the Russian occupants and fight for global secu-
rity; 
Whereas all legitimate members of the International Legion 
of Defense of Ukraine are recognized as official members 
of the Armed Forces of Ukraine; 
Whereas the Geneva Conventions and Additional Protocols 
are the core of international humanitarian law, and many 
rules contained in these treaties are considered customary 
international law, binding on all states, whether or not 
they have ratified the treaties; 
Whereas the Governments of Ukraine and Russia are parties 
to the Geneva Conventions and Additional Protocols; 
Whereas Article 13 of Part II of the Second Geneva Conven-
tion states, ‘‘Prisoners of war must at all times be hu-
manely treated. Any unlawful act or omission by the De-
taining Power causing death or seriously endangering the 
health of a prisoner of war in its custody is prohibited, 
and will be regarded as a serious breach of the present 
Convention.’’; 
Whereas Article 14 of Part II of the Second Geneva Conven-
tion states, ‘‘Prisoners of war are entitled in all cir-
cumstances to respect for their persons and their honour 
. . . Prisoners of war shall retain the full civil capacity 
which they enjoyed at the time of their capture. The De-
taining Power may not restrict the exercise, either within 
23:32 Jun 17, 2022
HR1188
3 
•HRES 1188 IH 
or without its own territory, of the rights such capacity 
confers except in so far as the captivity requires.’’; 
Whereas Article 15 of Part II of the Second Geneva Conven-
tion states, ‘‘The Power detaining prisoners of war shall 
be bound to provide free of charge for their maintenance 
and for the medical attention required by their state of 
health.’’; 
Whereas Article 16 of Part II of the Second Geneva Conven-
tion states, ‘‘Taking into consideration the provisions of 
the present Convention relating to rank and sex, and sub-
ject to any privileged treatment which may be accorded 
to them by reason of their state of health, age or profes-
sional qualifications, all prisoners of war shall be treated 
alike by the Detaining Power, without any adverse dis-
tinction based on race, nationality, religious belief or po-
litical opinions, or any other distinction founded on simi-
lar criteria.’’; 
Whereas Article 17 of Part III, Section I of the Second Gene-
va Convention states, ‘‘No physical or mental torture, nor 
any other form of coercion, may be inflicted on prisoners 
of war to secure from them information of any kind 
whatever. Prisoners of war who refuse to answer may not 
be threatened, insulted, or exposed to any unpleasant or 
disadvantageous treatment of any kind. Prisoners of war 
who, owing to their physical or mental condition, are un-
able to state their identity, shall be handed over to the 
medical service. The identity of such prisoners shall be 
established by all possible means, subject to the provi-
sions of the preceding paragraph.’’; 
Whereas Article 18 of Part III, Section I of the Second Gene-
va Convention states, ‘‘All effects and articles of personal 
use, except arms, horses, military equipment and military 
23:32 Jun 17, 2022
HR1188
4 
•HRES 1188 IH 
documents shall remain in the possession of prisoners of 
war, likewise their metal helmets and gas masks and like 
articles issued for personal protection. Effects and arti-
cles used for their clothing or feeding shall likewise re-
main in their possession, even if such effects and articles 
belong to their regulation military equipment. At no time 
should prisoners of war be without identity documents. 
The Detaining Power shall supply such documents to 
prisoners of war who possess none. Badges of rank and 
nationality, decorations and articles having above all a 
personal or sentimental value may not be taken from 
prisoners of war . . . The Detaining Power may with-
draw articles of value from prisoners of war only for rea-
sons of security; when such articles are withdrawn, the 
procedure laid down for sums of money impounded shall 
apply.’’; 
Whereas Article 19 of Part III, Section I of the Second Gene-
va Convention states, ‘‘Prisoners of war shall be evacu-
ated, as soon as possible after their capture, to camps sit-
uated in an area far enough from the combat zone for 
them to be out of danger. Only those prisoners of war 
who, owing to wounds or sickness, would run greater 
risks by being evacuated than by remaining where they 
are, may be temporarily kept back in a danger zone. 
Prisoners of war shall not be unnecessarily exposed to 
danger while awaiting evacuation from a fighting zone.’’; 
Whereas Article 20 of Part III, Section I of the Second Gene-
va Convention states, ‘‘The evacuation of prisoners of 
war shall always be effected humanely and in conditions 
similar to those for the forces of the Detaining Power in 
their changes of station. The Detaining Power shall sup-
ply prisoners of war who are being evacuated with suffi-
23:32 Jun 17, 2022
HR1188
5 
•HRES 1188 IH 
cient food and potable water, and with the necessary 
clothing and medical attention. The Detaining Power 
shall take all suitable precautions to ensure their safety 
during evacuation, and shall establish as soon as possible 
a list of the prisoners of war who are evacuated. If pris-
oners of war must, during evacuation, pass through tran-
sit camps, their stay in such camps shall be as brief as 
possible.’’; 
Whereas Article 22 of Part III, Section II, Chapter I of the 
Second Geneva Convention states, ‘‘Prisoners of war may 
be interned only in premises located on land and afford-
ing every guarantee of hygiene and healthfulness. Except 
in particular cases which are justified by the interest of 
the prisoners themselves, they shall not be interned in 
penitentiaries. Prisoners of war interned in unhealthy 
areas, or where the climate is injurious for them, shall 
be removed as soon as possible to a more favourable cli-
mate. The Detaining Power shall assemble prisoners of 
war in camps or camp compounds according to their na-
tionality, language and customs, provided that such pris-
oners shall not be separated from prisoners of war be-
longing to the armed forces with which they were serving 
at the time of their capture, except with their consent.’’; 
Whereas Article 23 of Part III, Section II, Chapter I of the 
Second Geneva Convention states, ‘‘No prisoner of war 
may at any time be sent to or detained in areas where 
he may be exposed to the fire of the combat zone, nor 
may his presence be used to render certain points or 
areas immune from military operations. Prisoners of war 
shall have shelters against air bombardment and other 
hazards of war, to the same extent as the local civilian 
population. With the exception of those engaged in the 
23:32 Jun 17, 2022
HR1188
6 
•HRES 1188 IH 
protection of their quarters against the aforesaid hazards, 
they may enter such shelters as soon as possible after the 
giving of the alarm. Any other protective measure taken 
in favour of the population shall also apply to them. De-
taining Powers shall give the Powers concerned, through 
the intermediary of the Protecting Powers, all useful in-
formation regarding the geographical location of prisoner 
of war camps.’’; 
Whereas Article 25 of Part III, Section II, Chapter II of the 
Second Geneva Convention states, ‘‘Prisoners of war shall 
be quartered under conditions as favourable as those for 
the forces of the Detaining Power who are billeted in the 
same area. The said conditions shall make allowance for 
the habits and customs of the prisoners and shall in no 
case be prejudicial to their health. The foregoing provi-
sions shall apply in particular to the dormitories of pris-
oners of war as regards both total surface and minimum 
cubic space, and the general installations, bedding and 
blankets. The premises provided for the use of prisoners 
of war individually or collectively, shall be entirely pro-
tected from dampness and adequately heated and lighted, 
in particular between dusk and lights out. All precautions 
must be taken against the danger of fire. In any camps 
in which women prisoners of war, as well as men, are ac-
commodated, separate dormitories shall be provided for 
them.’’; 
Whereas Article 26 of Part III, Section II, Chapter II of the 
Second Geneva Convention states, ‘‘The basic daily food 
rations shall be sufficient in quantity, quality and variety 
to keep prisoners of war in good health and to prevent 
loss of weight or the development of nutritional defi-
ciencies. Account shall also be taken of the habitual diet 
23:32 Jun 17, 2022
HR1188
7 
•HRES 1188 IH 
of the prisoners. The Detaining Power shall supply pris-
oners of war who work with such additional rations as 
are necessary for the labour on which they are employed. 
Sufficient drinking water shall be supplied to prisoners of 
war. The use of tobacco shall be permitted. Prisoners of 
war shall, as far as possible, be associated with the prep-
aration of their meals; they may be employed for that 
purpose in the kitchens. Furthermore, they shall be given 
the means of preparing, themselves, the additional food 
in their possession. Adequate premises shall be provided 
for messing. Collective disciplinary measures affecting 
food are prohibited.’’; 
Whereas Article 27 of Part III, Section II, Chapter II of the 
Second Geneva Convention states, ‘‘Clothing, underwear 
and footwear shall be supplied to prisoners of war in suf-
ficient quantities by the Detaining Power, which shall 
make allowance for the climate of the region where the 
prisoners are detained. Uniforms of enemy armed forces 
captured by the Detaining Power should, if suitable for 
the climate, be made available to clothe prisoners of war. 
The regular replacement and repair of the above articles 
shall be assured by the Detaining Power. In addition, 
prisoners of war who work shall receive appropriate cloth-
ing, wherever the nature of the work demands.’’; 
Whereas Article 29 of Part III, Section II, Chapter III of the 
Second Geneva Convention states, ‘‘The Detaining Power 
shall be bound to take all sanitary measures necessary to 
ensure the cleanliness and healthfulness of camps, and to 
prevent epidemics. Prisoners of war shall have for their 
use, day and night, conveniences which conform to the 
rules of hygiene and are maintained in a constant state 
of cleanliness. In any camps in which women prisoners of 
23:32 Jun 17, 2022
HR1188
8 
•HRES 1188 IH 
war are accommodated, separate conveniences shall be 
provided for them. Also, apart from the baths and show-
ers with which the camps shall be furnished, prisoners of 
war shall be provided with sufficient water and soap for 
their personal toilet and for washing their personal laun-
dry; the necessary installations, facilities and time shall 
be granted them for that purpose.’’; 
Whereas Article 30 of Part III, Section II, Chapter III of the 
Second Geneva Convention states, ‘‘Every camp shall 
have an adequate infirmary where prisoners of war may 
have the attention they require, as well as appropriate 
diet. Isolation wards shall, if necessary, be set aside for 
cases of contagious or mental disease. Prisoners of war 
suffering from serious disease, or whose condition neces-
sitates special treatment, a surgical operation or hospital 
care, must be admitted to any military or civilian medical 
unit where such treatment can be given, even if their re-
patriation is contemplated in the near future. Special fa-
cilities shall be afforded for the care to be given to the 
disabled, in particular to the blind, and for their rehabili-
tation, pending repatriation. Prisoners of war shall have 
the attention, preferably, of medical personnel of the 
Power on which they depend and, if possible, of their na-
tionality. Prisoners of war may not be prevented from 
presenting themselves to the medical authorities for ex-
amination. The detaining authorities shall, upon request, 
issue to every prisoner who has undergone treatment, an 
official certificate indicating the nature of his illness or 
injury, and the duration and kind of treatment received. 
A duplicate of this certificate shall be forwarded to the 
Central Prisoners of War Agency. The costs of treat-
ment, including those of any apparatus necessary for the 
maintenance of prisoners of war in good health, particu-
23:32 Jun 17, 2022
HR1188
9 
•HRES 1188 IH 
larly dentures and other artificial appliances, and spec-
tacles, shall be borne by the Detaining Power.’’; 
Whereas Article 31 of Part III, Section II, Chapter III of the 
Second Geneva Convention states, ‘‘Medical inspections 
of prisoners of war shall be held at least once a month. 
They shall include the checking and the recording of the 
weight of each prisoner of war. Their purpose shall be, 
in particular, to supervise the general state of health, nu-
trition and cleanliness of prisoners and to detect con-
tagious diseases, especially tuberculosis, malaria and ve-
nereal disease. For this purpose the most efficient meth-
ods available shall be employed, e.g. periodic mass minia-
ture radiography for the early detection of tuberculosis.’’; 
and 
Whereas Part III, Section II, Chapters IV, V, VI, and VIII, 
and additional Sections III, IV, and V of the Second Ge-
neva Convention and their Additional Protocols shall also 
be abided and are applicable to all prisoners of war under 
the internment of the Government of Russia: Now, there-
fore, be it 
Resolved, That the House of Representatives— 
1
(1) demands the Government of Russia to treat 
2
all forcibly detained people with dignity and abide by 
3
the Geneva Conventions and their Additional Proto-
4
cols, also known as the Humanitarian Law of Armed 
5
Conflicts; 
6
(2) urges the United States and members of the 
7
North Atlantic Treaty Organization to closely mon-
8
itor the treatment of prisoners of war and ensure 
9
23:32 Jun 17, 2022
HR1188
10 
•HRES 1188 IH 
appropriate actions are consistently taken to verify 
1
their safety and health; 
2
(3) forcefully condemns the continued use of 
3
unlawful and indiscriminate violence against civilian 
4
populations by the Government of Russia, its allies, 
5
and any other parties to the conflict; 
6
(4) urges that the global community hold Vladi-
7
mir Putin, the Government of Russia, and its allies 
8
accountable for war crimes committed during the 
9
military invasion of Ukraine; 
10
(5) supports the continued use of sanctions 
11
against Russia and its allies until Russia ends its 
12
military 
invasion 
and 
unequivocally 
recognizes 
13
Ukraine’s internationally recognized borders and po-
14
litical independence; and 
15
(6) proudly stands in solidarity with the people 
16
of Ukraine who are fighting for their freedom and 
17
democracy, Slava Ukraini, glory to Ukraine. 
18
Æ 
23:32 Jun 17, 2022
HR1188
