RESOLUTION 
Honoring the life and legacy of Dr. Terrance Newton. 
Whereas Dr. Terrance Newton, or ‘‘Newt’’, was a loving hus-
band and father, a dedicated principal, and committed 
public servant to the students, teachers, and parents of 
the Red Clay School District; 
Whereas Dr. Newton, a native of Wilmington, Delaware, 
overcame violence and poverty, and established himself as 
a pillar of the community through the support of his 
mother, Marie L. Hammond-Newton; 
Whereas Dr. Newton graduated from Delaware State Univer-
sity with a bachelor’s degree in criminal justice and soci-
ology, and became a youth rehabilitative counselor at 
Ferris School, a detention center for incarcerated youth; 
02:27 Apr 05, 2022
HR1024
2 
•HRES 1024 IH 
Whereas Dr. Newton returned to Delaware State for his mas-
ter’s and his doctoral degrees, becoming the first in his 
family to earn a doctoral degree; 
Whereas Dr. Newton worked in several schools in Delaware 
and Pennsylvania, and became principal of Warner Ele-
mentary School in Wilmington in 2019; 
Whereas Dr. Newton understood the challenges his students 
faced and resolved to help them overcome these chal-
lenges; 
Whereas Dr. Newton deeply cared for his students and main-
tained relationships with them based on love and mutual 
admiration; 
Whereas Dr. Newton gained national recognition for his inno-
vative school initiatives, including starting an in-school 
barbershop for students and leading efforts to provide 
Christmas gifts for students in need; 
Whereas Dr. Newton possessed more than 17 years of experi-
ence in education, and helped shape the lives of many 
young students; 
Whereas Dr. Newton was a beloved member of Kappa Alpha 
Psi Fraternity, Inc.; 
Whereas Dr. Newton was resilient, determined, and per-
severed against all odds; and 
Whereas Dr. Terrance Newton passed away on March 21, 
2022, and it is fitting that the House of Representatives 
recognizes him for his career and contributions to edu-
cation in Delaware: Now, therefore, be it 
Resolved, That the House of Representatives— 
1
(1) honors the life and legacy of Dr. Terrance 
2
Newton; 
3
02:27 Apr 05, 2022
HR1024
3 
•HRES 1024 IH 
(2) extends its heartfelt sympathies to the fam-
1
ily and friends of Dr. Terrance Newton; and 
2
(3) commends Dr. Terrance Newton for his 
3
commitment to education, students, their families, 
4
and to the Delaware community at large. 
5
Æ 
02:27 Apr 05, 2022
HR1024
