CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 
Expressing the sense of Congress that schools should safely 
reopen for in-person instruction as soon as possible. 
Whereas President Joe Biden has said ‘‘I think it’s important 
to follow the science. Listen to the experts. Do what they 
tell you.’’; 
Whereas an article published in the Journal of the American 
Medical Association maintained that ‘‘there has been lit-
tle evidence that schools have contributed meaningfully to 
increased community transmission’’ and noted ‘‘the pre-
ponderance of available evidence from the fall school se-
mester has been reassuring insofar as the type of rapid 
18:10 Feb 27, 2021
HC20
2 
•HCON 20 IH 
spread that was frequently observed in congregate living 
facilities or high-density worksites has not been reported 
in education settings in schools.’’; 
Whereas an article published in the New England Journal of 
Medicine argued that ‘‘[u]ntil [. . .] children physically 
return to school full time, many will lose out on essential 
educational, social, and developmental benefits; neither 
the economy nor the health care system will be able to 
return to full strength given parents’ caretaking respon-
sibilities; and profound racial and socioeconomic injus-
tices will be further exacerbated. We believe that safely 
reopening schools full-time for all elementary school chil-
dren should therefore be a top national priority.’’; 
Whereas Dr. Rochelle Walensky, the Director of the Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention, has said ‘‘[t]here is 
increasing data to suggest that schools can safely reopen 
and that safe reopening does not suggest that teachers 
need to be vaccinated’’ and ‘‘[v]accinations of teachers is 
not a prerequisite for safely reopening schools.’’; 
Whereas Dr. Anthony Fauci, the Director of the National In-
stitute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, has said 
‘‘[y]ou don’t want to essentially have nobody in school 
until all the teachers get vaccinated.’’; 
Whereas Congress has provided over $75 billion in financial 
assistance to help schools mitigate the risks of COVID– 
19 transmission and return to in-person instruction; 
Whereas school closures have been projected to harm Black, 
Hispanic, and low-income students most acutely, exacer-
bating achievement gaps by 15 to 20 percent and increas-
ing the likelihood of dropping out of school by 2 to 9 per-
cent; 
18:10 Feb 27, 2021
HC20
3 
•HCON 20 IH 
Whereas school closures have led to a significant drop in stu-
dent literacy skills; 
Whereas school closures have been associated with an in-
crease in mental health challenges for students including 
a higher risk for suicide; and 
Whereas school closures harm childcare-dependent lower in-
come families and working mothers and will likely con-
tribute to earnings gaps and lower employment rates 
among women: Now, therefore, be it 
Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate 
1
concurring), That it is the sense of Congress that school 
2
administrators should follow the science and safely reopen 
3
schools for in-person instruction as soon as possible, for 
4
the benefit of students and their parents. 
5
Æ 
18:10 Feb 27, 2021
HC20
