RESOLUTION 
Honoring the life of Dr. Frank Erdman Boston as a World 
War I veteran, military surgeon, community doctor, and 
founder of the Elm Terrace/Abington Lansdale Hospital 
and the Volunteer Medical Service Corps (VMSC) ambu-
lance corps. 
Whereas Mr. Boston attended Lincoln University, originally 
established as The Ashmun Institute, the Nation’s first 
degree-granting historically Black college and university; 
Whereas subsequently, Dr. Boston attended the Medico-Chi-
rurgical College, an outgrowth of the Medico-Chirurgical 
Society of Philadelphia which merged with the University 
of Pennsylvania Medical College and Jefferson Medical 
College; 
23:32 Jan 05, 2021
HR18
2 
•HRES 18 IH 
Whereas when World War I began, Dr. Boston enlisted and 
was immediately given the rank of first lieutenant in the 
Army Medical Reserve Corps; 
Whereas African-American recruits, including Dr. Boston, 
were sent for medical training at the Medical Officers 
Training Camp, Fort Des Moines, Iowa; 
Whereas after completing his training, Dr. Boston was as-
signed as a medical officer with the 317th Engineers 
Regiment of the 92d Division of the American Expedi-
tionary Forces; 
Whereas Dr. Boston’s division fought bravely across France 
and in the bloody Meuse-Argonne Offensive, the largest 
operation of the American Expeditionary Forces in World 
War I; 
Whereas the Meuse-Argonne Offensive was the deadliest cam-
paign in American history, resulting in more than 26,000 
soldiers killed in action and more than 120,000 total cas-
ualties; 
Whereas during his tour of duty, Dr. Boston treated soldiers 
while under aerial and gas attack; 
Whereas Dr. Boston served in France with the rank of cap-
tain and ended his military service as a major; 
Whereas after the war, Dr. Boston returned to work in Phila-
delphia and later settled in Lansdale where he opened the 
Elm Terrace Hospital, which was later renamed North 
Penn Hospital and subsequently became part of the Ab-
ington Jefferson Health Systems; 
Whereas Dr. Boston also formed a First Aid Emergency 
Squad in Lansdale, eventually known as the Volunteer 
Medical Service Corps of Lansdale; 
23:32 Jan 05, 2021
HR18
3 
•HRES 18 IH 
Whereas, as a Boy Scout official, Dr. Boston served as chair-
man of Health and Safety for the General Nash District, 
Valley Forge Scout Council; 
Whereas Dr. Boston was a member of the Reserve Officers 
Association of Military Surgeons, the Montgomery Coun-
ty Medical Society, and the American Medical Associa-
tion; 
Whereas Dr. Boston died February 8, 1960, at 69 years of 
age, and was buried in Lansdale; and 
Whereas Jefferson Health and Abington Lansdale Hospital, 
along with the Borough of Lansdale, are honoring Dr. 
Boston, and a mural is being planned for the Lansdale 
Borough Hall: Now, therefore, be it 
Resolved, That the House of Representative honors 
1
the life of Dr. Frank Erdman Boston as a World War 
2
I veteran, military surgeon, community doctor, and found-
3
er of the Elm Terrace/Abington Lansdale Hospital and the 
4
Volunteer Medical Service Corps (VMSC) ambulance 
5
corps. 
6
Æ 
23:32 Jan 05, 2021
HR18
