RESOLUTION 
Expressing continued support for all U.S. Border Patrol 
agents who carry out the important mission of securing 
our borders. 
Whereas, on September 19, 2021, tens of thousands of mi-
grants amassed under the Del Rio International Bridge 
at the Texas-Mexico border, creating an exceptionally dif-
ficult and dangerous situation for U.S. Border Patrol 
agents; 
Whereas U.S. Border Patrol’s Horse Patrol Unit in Del Rio, 
Texas, was protecting the southwest border and attempt-
ing to interdict thousands of unlawful border crossings 
04:53 Jul 27, 2022
HR1255
2 
•HRES 1255 IH 
into the United States when certain agents were accused 
of whipping migrants; 
Whereas President Joe Biden rushed to judgement and pub-
licly declared, ‘‘It’s outrageous. I promise you, those peo-
ple will pay.’’, referring to Horse Patrol agents before an 
internal investigation ever took place; 
Whereas Vice President Kamala Harris said, ‘‘What I saw 
depicted about those individuals on horseback treating 
human beings the way they were, was horrible.’’; 
Whereas former Press Secretary Jen Psaki said, ‘‘I don’t 
think anyone seeing the footage would think it was ac-
ceptable or appropriate.’’; 
Whereas the journalist who released the photos from Del Rio 
claimed, ‘‘I’ve never seen them whip anyone.’’, and that 
the images ‘‘can be misconstrued’’; 
Whereas the U.S. Customs and Border Protection’s Office of 
Professional Responsibility report stated, ‘‘There is no 
evidence that Border Patrol agents involved in this inci-
dent struck, intentionally or otherwise, any migrant with 
their reins.’’; 
Whereas 
Secretary 
of 
Homeland 
Security 
Alejandro 
Mayorkas accused Horse Patrol agents of weaponizing a 
horse to aggressively attack a child, but the investigation 
found that no children or adults were attacked; 
Whereas Secretary Mayorkas rushed to judge U.S. Border 
Patrol agents and guaranteed the review would be com-
pleted ‘‘in days – not weeks’’; 
Whereas the report, promised days after the event, was not 
released by U.S. Customs and Border Protection until al-
most a year after the initial event; 
04:53 Jul 27, 2022
HR1255
3 
•HRES 1255 IH 
Whereas the report claims that ‘‘No evidence was found dur-
ing this investigation to suggest any migrant was ulti-
mately forced to return to Mexico or was denied entry 
into the United States.’’; 
Whereas the Biden Administration would rather create rea-
sons to criticize U.S. Border Patrol agents than support 
their mission and address the self-inflicted crisis at the 
border; 
Whereas the Biden Administration cares more about scoring 
political points than supporting and protecting front line 
agents; 
Whereas the national security interests of the United States 
are dependent on the brave men and women of the U.S. 
Border Patrol; 
Whereas the men and women of the U.S. Border Patrol con-
tinue to face an impossible task of securing the border 
during the Biden border crisis; 
Whereas President Biden still has yet to visit the southwest 
border where U.S. Border Patrol agents have lost oper-
ational control due to his Administration’s policies; 
Whereas the Biden Administration continues to falsely claim 
that the border is ‘‘closed’’ and that the border is ‘‘se-
cure’’; 
Whereas U.S. Border Patrol agents are put in significant 
danger each day as they encounter human smugglers, are 
exposed to deadly drugs and communicable diseases, and 
operate in extreme weather conditions; 
Whereas U.S. Border Patrol agents have encountered over 
3,000,000 migrants unlawfully crossing the southwest 
border during the Biden Administration; 
04:53 Jul 27, 2022
HR1255
4 
•HRES 1255 IH 
Whereas, as of June 30, 2022, 56 people whose names ap-
pear on the terror watch list were stopped trying to un-
lawfully cross the southwest border; 
Whereas U.S. Customs and Border Protection, during the 
Biden Administration, has seized over 1,124,652 pounds 
of drugs, including— 
(1) 307,300 pounds of marijuana; 
(2) 261,300 pounds of methamphetamine; 
(3) 111,700 pounds of cocaine; 
(4) 15,400 pounds of fentanyl; and 
(5) 4,800 pounds of heroin; and 
Whereas the U.S. Border Patrol partners with State, local, 
and Tribal law enforcement to protect communities and 
keep the American people safe: Now, therefore, be it 
Resolved, That the House of Representatives— 
1
(1) expresses its continued support for all U.S. 
2
Border Patrol agents who carry out the important 
3
mission of securing our borders; 
4
(2) condemns the Biden Administration for po-
5
liticizing the events of September 19, 2021, in Del 
6
Rio, Texas; 
7
(3) denounces false claims and allegations 
8
against agents of the U.S. Border Patrol’s House 
9
Patrol Unit in Del Rio, Texas; and 
10
(4) calls on the Biden Administration to sup-
11
port front line U.S. Border Patrol agents and end 
12
the crisis at the southwest border. 
13
Æ 
04:53 Jul 27, 2022
HR1255
