RESOLUTION 
Honoring the life and legacy of Congresswoman Carrie Pitt-
man Meek and commending her for her devotion to the 
Nation and its ideals. 
Whereas Congresswoman Carrie Pittman Meek was a trail-
blazing advocate for equal rights, a loving mother and 
grandmother, a loyal friend and confidante, and a com-
03:11 Dec 04, 2021
HR834
2 
•HRES 834 IH 
mitted public servant to the people of the 17th congres-
sional district of Florida; 
Whereas Ms. Meek earned a bachelor’s degree in biology and 
physical education from Florida A&M University while 
setting records as a track and field athlete; 
Whereas, due to a ban in Florida that prevented Black stu-
dents from attending State graduate schools, Ms. Meek 
enrolled at the University of Michigan, where she earned 
a master’s degree in public health and physical education; 
Whereas Ms. Meek, granddaughter of a woman who had been 
born enslaved, broke a plethora of gender and racial bar-
riers, serving as Bethune Cookman University’s first fe-
male basketball coach and the first African American 
woman elected to the Florida State Senate in 1983; 
Whereas Ms. Meek, while serving in the Florida State Legis-
lature, passed a minority business enterprise law and 
other measures to promote economic growth, literacy, and 
school retention rates; 
Whereas Ms. Meek was a skilled legislator who was once 
called ‘‘the conscience of the Florida Senate’’ and served 
as a role model for other elected officials and broke down 
barriers so that they could successfully follow the trail-
blazing path she paved; 
Whereas Ms. Meek was one of the first African Americans 
from Florida since Reconstruction to be elected to Con-
gress, where she fought tirelessly to improve the lives of 
the constituents she served; 
Whereas Ms. Meek as a freshman in Congress intensely lob-
bied for a seat on the powerful Appropriations Com-
mittee, as her community needed her at the table in the 
wake of Hurricane Andrew, and with her charm and 
03:11 Dec 04, 2021
HR834
3 
•HRES 834 IH 
drive Ms. Meek was able to convince Speaker Thomas S. 
Foley of Washington to put her on the Appropriations 
Committee, where she worked to secure $100,000,000 in 
aid to help rebuild Dade County following Hurricane An-
drew; 
Whereas, during her time in Congress, Ms. Meek earned a 
well-deserved reputation as a national treasure who de-
voted her life to Black communities in Florida and com-
munities of color around the world; 
Whereas, 
despite 
her 
soft 
southern 
cadence 
and 
grandmotherly demeanor, the revered civil rights icon 
Congressman John Lewis of Georgia once said of Ms. 
Meek, ‘‘We see showboats and we see tugboats. She’s a 
tugboat. I never want to be on the side of issues against 
her.’’; 
Whereas Ms. Meek later retired from public office in 2002 
and with her legacy as a fighter who broke down count-
less barriers, she paved the way for her son Kendrick B. 
Meek of Florida and later Frederica S. Wilson of Florida, 
who succeeded her in Congress and continued her legacy 
as a voice for the voiceless; 
Whereas Ms. Meek founded the Carrie Meek Foundation, 
which provides the Miami-Dade community with critical 
resources, opportunities, and jobs; 
Whereas Ms. Meek was awarded honorary Juris Doctor de-
grees from the University of Miami, Florida A&M, Barry 
University, Florida Atlanta University, and Rollins Col-
lege; 
Whereas Ms. Meek was inducted into the Florida A&M Uni-
versity Sports Hall of Fame and honored with the co-
naming of its James N. Eaton, Sr., Southeastern Re-
03:11 Dec 04, 2021
HR834
4 
•HRES 834 IH 
gional Black Archives Research Center and Museum in 
Tallahassee, Florida; 
Whereas Ms. Meek was honored with the renaming of 
Broward County’s Nova Southeastern College’s Out-
standing Education Leadership Achievement Scholarship 
and Miami, Florida’s Northwest 27th Boulevard; and 
Whereas Congresswoman Meek passed away on November 
28, 2021, and it is fitting that the House of Representa-
tives recognize her for her exemplary career and con-
tributions to public service, the people of Florida, and the 
American people: Now, therefore, be it 
Resolved, That the House of Representatives— 
1
(1) honors the life and legacy of Congress-
2
woman Carrie Meek; 
3
(2) extends its condolences to her children and 
4
family; and 
5
(3) commends her for her devotion to the Na-
6
tion and its ideals. 
7
Æ 
03:11 Dec 04, 2021
HR834
