RESOLUTION 
Censuring Representative Andrew Clyde of Georgia. 
Whereas in January 2021, the Committee on the Judiciary 
of the House of Representatives released its report, ‘‘Ma-
terials in Support of H. Res. 24, Impeaching Donald 
John Trump, President of the United States, for High 
Crimes and Misdemeanors’’, which stated: 
‘‘To enter the Capitol, the insurrectionists dese-
crated the Capitol including by, among other acts, ran-
sacking and looting Member offices, stealing and de-
stroying electronics, government property, and sensitive 
materials, and engaging in violence, which eventually re-
02:13 May 21, 2021
HR419
2 
•HRES 419 IH 
sulted in at least five deaths. To enter the Capitol, the 
insurrectionists overwhelmed Capitol Police, scaled walls, 
used makeshift ladders, shattered windows, and overran 
barricades. Although Capitol Police locked the gallery 
and floor doors and Members and staff barricaded them-
selves in offices, the mob stormed Member offices, van-
dalizing and smashing property, overturning furniture, 
and, in some cases, stealing electronics. 
‘‘Insurrectionists also severely damaged the building 
itself. They left bullet marks in the building walls, looted 
art, destroyed monuments, including a commemorative 
display honoring late congressman John Lewis, smeared 
their feces in several hallways, and fatally injured a Cap-
itol Police officer. Several brandished the Confederate 
battle flag and extremist paraphernalia. 
‘‘By approximately 2:45 PM, insurrectionists had 
breached the House and Senate floors and began posing 
for photographs, including on the dais where Vice Presi-
dent Mike Pence had been presiding just moments be-
fore. Other images showed rioters smoking marijuana in 
Capitol rooms. The insurrectionists had, among their 
gear and weaponry, bullet-proof vests, zip ties used for 
handcuffs, metal knuckles, sticks and poles, knives, and 
firearms; in total, at least six handguns were recovered 
from subsequent arrests. Videos confirmed that these in-
02:13 May 21, 2021
HR419
3 
•HRES 419 IH 
surrectionists were openly threatening specific Members 
of Congress. For example, some of the attackers said, 
‘Tell Pelosi we’re coming for that [expletive]’.’’; 
Whereas the Committee’s report also stated, ‘‘During the at-
tack, Vice President Pence, Members of Congress, and 
staff were sheltering in secure locations. Spurred by the 
false claims of fraud, some of the attackers said, ‘Tell 
Pelosi we’re coming for that [expletive]’, and ‘Hang Mike 
Pence’. Some attackers carried zip ties intended to be 
used as handcuffs. A noose was hung outside the Capitol. 
Multiple members of the Capitol Police were severely in-
jured or killed.’’; 
Whereas the Committee’s report also stated, ‘‘Later video 
would emerge of insurrectionists inside the Capitol chant-
ing ‘Hang Mike Pence!’ ’’; 
Whereas on May 12, 2021, during a hearing entitled ‘‘The 
Capitol Insurrection: Unexplained Delays and Unan-
swered Questions’’ held by the Committee on Oversight 
and Reform of the House of Representatives, Representa-
tive Andrew Clyde of Georgia stated that the events that 
transpired at the attack on the United States Capitol on 
January 6, 2021 were ‘‘not an insurrection’’ and that to 
call it an insurrection is a ‘‘bold-faced lie’’; 
Whereas on that date Representative Clyde also stated of the 
insurrectionists, ‘‘Watching the TV footage of those who 
entered the Capitol and walked through Statuary Hall 
showed people in an orderly fashion staying between the 
stanchions and ropes taking videos and pictures. You 
know, if you didn’t know the TV footage was a video 
from January 6th, you would actually think it was a nor-
mal tourist visit.’’; and 
02:13 May 21, 2021
HR419
4 
•HRES 419 IH 
Whereas undermining the seriousness of the insurrection that 
occurred on January 6 against the United States Capitol 
and 
Members 
of 
Congress, 
and 
dangerously 
mischaracterizing the events of that day, disrespects the 
sacrifices made by law enforcement officers on that day 
and creates danger by emboldening and legitimizing fu-
ture actors who would attack the United States Capitol 
in a similar manner: Now, therefore, be it 
Resolved, That— 
1
(1) Representative Andrew Clyde of Georgia be 
2
hereby censured; 
3
(2) Representative Andrew Clyde of Georgia 
4
forthwith present himself in the well of the House of 
5
Representatives for the pronouncement of censure; 
6
and 
7
(3) Representative Andrew Clyde of Georgia be 
8
censured with the public reading of this resolution 
9
by the Speaker. 
10
Æ 
02:13 May 21, 2021
HR419
