JOINT RESOLUTION 
Opposing the decision to end certain United States efforts 
to prevent Turkish military operations against Syrian 
Kurdish forces in Northeast Syria. 
Whereas thousands of Syrian fighters, including Syrian 
Kurds, fought courageously with the United States 
against the brutality of ISIS throughout Syria, liberating 
nearly one-third of Syrian territory from ISIS’ so-called 
‘‘caliphate.’’; 
Whereas, on October 6, 2019, the White House announced 
‘‘Turkey will soon be moving forward with its long- 
planned operation into Northern Syria’’ while the 
‘‘United States Armed Forces will not support or be in-
00:16 Oct 16, 2019
HJ77
dlhill on DSKBBY8HB2PROD with BILLS
2 
•HJ 77 IH 
volved in the operation, and United States forces . . . 
will no longer be in the immediate area.’’; 
Whereas, on October 6, 2019, the White House announced 
‘‘Turkey will now be responsible for all ISIS fighters in 
the area captured over the past two years . . . .’’; 
Whereas an October 10, 2019, White House statement said, 
‘‘This morning, Turkey, a NATO member, invaded Syria. 
The United States does not endorse this attack and has 
made it clear to Turkey that this operation is a bad 
idea.’’; 
Whereas Turkey has historically threatened, forcibly dis-
placed, and killed Syrian Kurds, including during mili-
tary operations in the Afrin District; 
Whereas, on August 1, 2019, Special Envoy James Jeffrey 
stated in reference to the Syrian Kurds and Syrian 
Democratic Forces (SDF), ‘‘We are committed to defeat-
ing ISIS in northeast Syria. The SDF . . . is our part-
ner there. We are committed to those who have fought 
with us not being attacked and not being harmed by any-
one. The President made that clear publicly. That in-
cludes our concerns about the Turks.’’; 
Whereas in January 2019, Director of National Intelligence 
Dan Coats stated in Congressional testimony that ‘‘The 
conflicts in Iraq and Syria have generated a large pool 
of skilled and battle-hardened fighters who remain dis-
persed throughout the region . . . and the group has re-
turned to its guerilla-warfare roots while continuing to 
plot attacks and direct its supporters worldwide. ISIS is 
intent on resurging.’’; 
Whereas, during the counter-ISIS campaign in Syria, the 
SDF captured thousands of ISIS fighters, including for-
00:16 Oct 16, 2019
HJ77
dlhill on DSKBBY8HB2PROD with BILLS
3 
•HJ 77 IH 
eign terrorist fighters from around the world who pose 
threats to our allies in the region; 
Whereas in addition to ISIS fighters in detention approxi-
mately 70,000 women and children are currently held at 
the Al-Hol internally displaced persons camp and at 
other camps in northeast Syria; 
Whereas the Lead Inspector General for Combined Joint 
Task Force Operation Inherent Resolve stated in August 
2019, ISIS is already ‘‘seeking to establish safe haven in 
al-Hol’’ aiming to recruit individuals who are ‘‘susceptible 
to ISIS messaging, coercion, and enticement.’’; 
Whereas the SDF has warned the United States and inter-
national community that a Turkish incursion into North-
east Syria would significantly decrease the SDF’s ability 
to combat ISIS and to continue providing security and 
management for ISIS detainees and their family mem-
bers; 
Whereas, on October 6, 2019, President Trump conducted a 
call with President Erdogan in which, according to the 
official White House press release, they discussed the up-
coming Turkish incursion, and soon after this call, a 
White House press release announced the withdrawal of 
the United States military from the immediate area, 
which was completed within hours; and 
Whereas an abrupt withdrawal of United States military per-
sonnel from certain parts of Northeast Syria is beneficial 
to adversaries of the United States government, including 
Syria, Iran, and Russia: Now, therefore, be it 
Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives
1
of the United States of America in Congress assembled, 
2
That Congress— 
3
00:16 Oct 16, 2019
HJ77
dlhill on DSKBBY8HB2PROD with BILLS
4 
•HJ 77 IH 
(1) opposes the decision to end certain United 
1
States efforts to prevent Turkish military operations 
2
against Syrian Kurdish forces in Northeast Syria; 
3
(2) calls on Turkish President Erdogan to im-
4
mediately cease unilateral military action in North-
5
east Syria and to respect existing agreements relat-
6
ing to Syria; 
7
(3) calls on the United States to continue sup-
8
porting Syrian Kurdish communities through hu-
9
manitarian support, including to those displaced or 
10
otherwise affected by ongoing violence in Syria; 
11
(4) calls on the United States to work to ensure 
12
that the Turkish military acts with restraint and re-
13
spects existing agreements relating to Syria; and 
14
(5) calls on the White House to present a clear 
15
and specific plan for the enduring defeat of ISIS. 
16
Æ 
00:16 Oct 16, 2019
HJ77
dlhill on DSKBBY8HB2PROD with BILLS
