CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 
Celebrating the 50th anniversary of the Apollo 11 Moon 
landing. 
Whereas, on May 25, 1961, President John F. Kennedy, Jr., 
before a joint session of Congress, declared, ‘‘Now it is 
time to take longer strides—time for a great new Amer-
ican enterprise—time for this Nation to take a clearly 
leading role in space achievement, which in many ways 
may hold the key to our future on Earth’’, setting the 
goal of sending astronauts to the Moon and returning 
them safely to the Earth; 
Whereas the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
(in this preamble referred to as ‘‘NASA’’) mobilized and 
established the Apollo space program to meet the goal set 
by President Kennedy; 
21:28 Jun 06, 2019
HC47
2 
•HCON 47 IH 
Whereas the Apollo space program built on the achievements 
of the prior space programs of NASA, including the Mer-
cury and Gemini missions; 
Whereas the successful Moon landing honored the tragic sac-
rifice of every astronaut whose life had previously been 
lost in the service of United States spaceflight research, 
including— 
(1) Roger B. Chaffee, Virgil I. ‘‘Gus’’ Grissom, and 
Edward H. White II, the astronauts whose lives were lost 
during pre-flight tests for Apollo 1; and 
(2) Theodore C. Freeman, Charles A. Bassett II, El-
liot See, Jr., Robert H. Lawrence, Jr., Michael J. Adams, 
and Clifton C. Williams, Jr.; 
Whereas the crew of the Apollo 11 mission consisted of— 
(1) Neil Armstrong, Mission Commander; 
(2) Edwin E. ‘‘Buzz’’ Aldrin, Lunar Module Pilot; 
and 
(3) Michael Collins, Command Module Pilot; 
Whereas James A. Lovell, Jr., Fred W. Haise, Jr., and Wil-
liam A. Anders stood ready to support or stand in for the 
Apollo 11 crew; 
Whereas, on July 16, 1969, the Apollo 11 crew launched 
from the NASA Launch Operations Center, now known 
as the John F. Kennedy Space Center, aboard a Saturn 
V rocket; 
Whereas, on July 20, 1969, Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin 
landed the Eagle Lunar Module on the surface of the 
Moon, and Neil Armstrong said to Mission Control in 
Houston, Texas, ‘‘Houston, Tranquility Base here. The 
Eagle has landed.’’; 
21:28 Jun 06, 2019
HC47
3 
•HCON 47 IH 
Whereas, when Neil Armstrong took the first step onto the 
Moon, he declared, ‘‘That’s one small step for a man, one 
giant leap for mankind.’’; 
Whereas Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin planted the flag of 
the United States in lunar soil, recording the achieve-
ment of the country as the first to land on the Moon; 
Whereas Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin placed a plaque on 
the Moon that reads, ‘‘We came in peace for all man-
kind’’, recording the peaceful, scientific intent of the 
Apollo missions; 
Whereas the Apollo 11 crew collected lunar samples and con-
ducted experiments to gain a better understanding of the 
composition of the Moon and conditions on its surface; 
Whereas the Lunar Laser Ranging Retroreflector installed by 
the Apollo 11 crew is still used to measure the distance 
of the Moon from the surface of the Earth; 
Whereas the success of the Apollo 11 Moon landing was due 
to the skill, dedication, and collective effort of tens of 
thousands of workers, scientists, engineers, and contrac-
tors of the United States; 
Whereas the trajectory calculations of Katherine Johnson and 
other mathematicians in the computer pool at NASA 
were critical to the design of the Apollo 11 mission and 
the rendezvous of the Apollo 11 Lunar Lander with the 
Command and Service Module in lunar orbit; 
Whereas the Apollo 11 mission demonstrated the focus and 
capability of the scientific community of the United 
States and established the United States as the world 
leader in space exploration; 
Whereas the Apollo 11 Moon landing was broadcasted live 
over radio and television to millions across the world; 
21:28 Jun 06, 2019
HC47
4 
•HCON 47 IH 
Whereas, 50 years later, the Apollo 11 Moon landing con-
tinues to inspire national scientific efforts in space, medi-
cine, and other fields; and 
Whereas the knowledge and experience gained from the Apol-
lo space program continues to inform missions to Mars, 
the far reaches of the solar system, and beyond: Now, 
therefore, be it 
Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate 
1
concurring), That Congress— 
2
(1) celebrates the 50th anniversary of the Apol-
3
lo 11 Moon landing; 
4
(2) honors the bravery and skill of the crew of 
5
Apollo 11, Neil Armstrong, Edwin E. ‘‘Buzz’’ 
6
Aldrin, and Michael Collins; 
7
(3) commends the efforts of all individuals of 
8
the United States who contributed to the achieve-
9
ment of the Apollo 11 Moon landing, exemplifying a 
10
cooperative effort on a national scale that continues 
11
to inspire scientific progress; and 
12
(4) supports the continued leadership of the 
13
United States in the exploration and utilization of 
14
space through human spaceflight. 
15
Æ 
21:28 Jun 06, 2019
HC47
