RESOLUTION 
Raising a question of the privileges of the House. 
Whereas the United States has always been a proud multicul-
tural Nation; 
Whereas since early in our history our Nation has recognized 
the strength that our diversity brings by making our na-
tional motto E Pluribus Unum; 
Whereas on July 13, 2006, on the floor of the House of Rep-
resentatives, comparing immigrants to livestock, Rep-
resentative Steve King of Iowa stated, ‘‘We could also 
electrify this wire with the kind of current that would not 
kill somebody, but it would simply be a discouragement 
for them to be fooling around with it. We do that with 
livestock all the time.’’; 
00:39 Jan 17, 2019
HR53
2 
•HRES 53 IH 
Whereas on March 8, 2008, in an interview with KICD Stu-
dios, Representative King stated, ‘‘I don’t want to dispar-
age anyone because of their race, their ethnicity, their 
name—whatever their religion their father might have 
been . . . I’ll just say this: When you think about the op-
tics of a Barack Obama potentially getting elected Presi-
dent of the United States—I mean, what does this look 
like to the rest of the world? What does it look like to 
the world of Islam?’’; 
Whereas on May 21, 2012, while speaking with constituents 
in Pocahontas, Iowa, Representative King compared vet-
ting immigrants to choosing hunting dogs saying, ‘‘You 
want a good bird dog? You want one that’s going to be 
aggressive? Pick the one that’s the friskiest.’’; 
Whereas in July 2012, at a tele-townhall, on President 
Barack Obama’s place of birth, Representative King stat-
ed, ‘‘It would have been awfully hard to fraudulently file 
the birth notice of Barack Obama being born in Hawaii 
and get that into our public libraries and that microfiche 
they keep of all the newspapers published. That doesn’t 
mean there aren’t some other explanations on how they 
might’ve announced that by telegram from Kenya. The 
list goes on. But drilling into that now, even if we could 
get a definitive answer and even if it turned out that 
Barack Obama was conclusively not born in America, I 
don’t think we could get that case sold between now and 
November.’’; 
Whereas on January 4, 2013, in a press release announcing 
the introduction of his bill, H.R. 140, Representative 
King stated, ‘‘The current practice of extending U.S. citi-
zenship to hundreds of thousands of ‘anchor babies’ must 
end because it creates a magnet for illegal immigration 
00:39 Jan 17, 2019
HR53
3 
•HRES 53 IH 
into our country. Now is the time to ensure that the laws 
in this country do not encourage law breaking.’’; 
Whereas on July 24, 2014, in an interview with Newsmax 
discussing undocumented immigrants in the United 
States, Representative King stated, ‘‘For everyone who’s 
a valedictorian, there’s another 100 out there who weigh 
130 pounds—and they’ve got calves the size of canta-
loupes because they’re hauling 75 pounds of marijuana 
across the desert.’’; 
Whereas on July 20, 2016, in an interview with The Wash-
ington Post, Representative King stated, ‘‘The idea of 
multiculturalism, that every culture is equal—that’s not 
objectively true.’’; 
Whereas on July 18, 2016, in an appearance on MSNBC, 
Representative King stated, ‘‘Where did any other sub-
group of people contribute more to civilization [than 
White people]?’’; 
Whereas on September 18, 2016, on Twitter, Representative 
King stated, that ‘‘Cultural suicide by demographic 
transformation must end.’’; 
Whereas on March 12, 2017, on Twitter, Representative 
King shared a story about far-right Dutch politician 
Geert Wilders and added, ‘‘We can’t restore our civiliza-
tion with somebody else’s babies.’’; 
Whereas on March 13, 2017, on CNN, Representative King 
stated, ‘‘I’d like to see an America that’s just so homoge-
nous that we look a lot the same’’ and ‘‘There’s been this 
effort, we’re going to have to replace that void with some-
body else’s babies. That’s the push to bring in [so] much 
illegal immigration into America, living in enclaves, refus-
00:39 Jan 17, 2019
HR53
4 
•HRES 53 IH 
ing to assimilate into the American culture and civiliza-
tion.’’; 
Whereas on June 12, 2018, Representative King retweeted 
Mark Collett, a self-described ‘‘Nazi sympathizer’’; 
Whereas on September 2, 2018, in an interview with 
Unzensuriert, a publication linked to a fascist Austrian 
political party, Representative King stated, ‘‘What does 
this diversity bring that we don’t already have? Mexican 
food, Chinese food, those things—well, that’s fine. But 
what does it bring that we don’t have that is worth the 
price? We have a lot of diversity within the U.S. al-
ready.’’; 
Whereas on January 10, 2019, in the New York Times, Rep-
resentative King stated ‘‘White nationalist, White su-
premacist, Western civilization—how did that language 
become offensive?’’; 
Whereas Representative King’s statements have drawn praise 
from known White supremacists like former Ku Klux 
Klan leader David Duke; 
Whereas Representative King dishonors not only immigrants 
but every American with his racist and xenophobic rhet-
oric; and 
Whereas Representative King has failed to retract his state-
ment and apologize to the Members of the House or 
Americans across the country: Now, therefore, be it 
Resolved, That— 
1
(1) Representative Steve King of Iowa, by his 
2
despicable conduct, has dishonored himself and 
3
brought discredit to the House and merits the cen-
4
sure of the House for the same; 
5
00:39 Jan 17, 2019
HR53
5 
•HRES 53 IH 
(2) Representative Steve King of Iowa be cen-
1
sured; 
2
(3) Representative Steve King of Iowa forth-
3
with present himself in the well of the House of 
4
Representatives for the pronouncement of censure; 
5
and 
6
(4) Representative Steve King of Iowa be cen-
7
sured with the public reading of this resolution by 
8
the Speaker. 
9
Æ 
00:39 Jan 17, 2019
HR53
