RESOLUTION 
Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that 
Congressman Adam Schiff should be removed from the 
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
House and that his security clearance should be revoked 
immediately. 
Whereas Congressman Adam Schiff is the Chairman of the 
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
House of Representatives; 
Whereas, by virtue of this Chairmanship, Congressman Schiff 
is a member of the ‘‘Gang of Eight’’, a group of eight 
members of Congress who access, review, and analyze 
America’s most sensitive intelligence, including covert ac-
tions, as set forth in section 503(c)(2) of the National 
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3093(c)(2)); 
22:42 Apr 10, 2019
HR306
2 
•HRES 306 IH 
Whereas, because not all members of Congress can access, re-
view, and analyze all intelligence presented to the Gang 
of Eight, each member must be able to rely upon the 
judgment, integrity, and truthfulness of each member of 
the Gang of Eight to serve Congress’s overall decision- 
making functions; 
Whereas Gang of Eight members must be credible when 
sharing their reactions to America’s most sensitive intel-
ligence information; 
Whereas Congressman Schiff can no longer be trusted by his 
colleagues in Congress or the American people; 
Whereas every Republican member of the Permanent Select 
Committee on Intelligence has signed a letter stating that 
they have no confidence in Congressman Schiff as Chair-
man; 
Whereas Congressman Schiff has repeatedly slandered Presi-
dent Donald J. Trump by falsely claiming he colluded 
with Russia to win the presidency; 
Whereas, in March 2017, Congressman Schiff falsely claimed 
the Trump campaign accepted help from the Russian 
government to win the presidency; 
Whereas, in December 2017, Congressman Schiff falsely 
claimed ‘‘the Russians offered help, the campaign accept-
ed help, the Russians gave help, and the president made 
full use of that help’’ when referring to unsubstantiated 
claims of collusion between President Donald J. Trump 
and Russia; 
Whereas, in January 2019, Congressman Schiff claimed 
there was ‘‘clear evidence on the issue of collusion’’ be-
tween the Trump campaign and Russia; 
22:42 Apr 10, 2019
HR306
3 
•HRES 306 IH 
Whereas, in February 2019, Congressman Schiff claimed 
there was ‘‘ample evidence of collusion of the campaign’’ 
colluding with Russia; 
Whereas Congressman Schiff said in April 2019 he does not 
regret calling out President Donald J. Trump over base-
less and disproved allegations of collusion with Russia; 
Whereas the principle conclusions of the Mueller Report de-
termined there was no collusion between the Trump 
Campaign and Russia; 
Whereas Congressman Schiff continues to claim there is 
‘‘ample’’ evidence of Trump-Russia collusion ‘‘in plain 
sight’’ without offering any evidence to prove his claims; 
Whereas Congressman Schiff has demonstrated a blatant bias 
in the performance of his official duties as Chairman of 
the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence; and 
Whereas 
Congressman 
Schiff 
has 
proven 
himself 
untrustworthy by advancing falsities about the President 
of the United States, Donald J. Trump, as relating to 
unfounded allegations of collusion with the Russian Fed-
eration: Now, therefore, be it 
Resolved, 
1
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. 
2
This resolution may be cited as the ‘‘Preventing Ex-
3
treme Negligence with Classified Information Licenses 
4
Resolution’’ or the ‘‘PENCIL Resolution’’. 
5
SEC. 2. SENSE OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. 
6
It is the sense of the House of Representatives that 
7
Congressman Adam Schiff should be removed from the 
8
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
9
01:05 Apr 11, 2019
HR306
4 
•HRES 306 IH 
and that his security clearance should be revoked imme-
1
diately. 
2
Æ 
22:42 Apr 10, 2019
HR306
