RESOLUTION 
Honoring Rosalynn Smith Carter’s 50 years of mental health 
advocacy. 
Whereas Rosalynn Smith Carter, since 1970, when her hus-
band, future President of the United States Jimmy Car-
ter, was a candidate for Governor of Georgia, has been 
a leading advocate for raising awareness about mental 
health and the ability of people with mental health dis-
orders to recover and live happy and fulfilling lives; 
Whereas Mrs. Carter emerged as a national driving force for 
mental health when, during Jimmy Carter’s presidential 
administration, Mrs. Carter became the active honorary 
chair of the President’s Commission on Mental Health; 
Whereas the work of President Carter’s Commission on Men-
tal Health resulted in passage of the Mental Health Sys-
20:58 Oct 06, 2020
HR1181
2 
•HRES 1181 IH 
tems Act of 1980, which offered reforms to publicly fund-
ed mental health programs; 
Whereas, in 1982, President and Mrs. Carter founded The 
Carter Center, which is dedicated to improving the qual-
ity of life for people in the United States and in the de-
veloping world through programs that promote peace and 
health; 
Whereas, from 1985 to 2016, Mrs. Carter hosted the annual 
Rosalynn Carter Symposium on Mental Health Policy, 
bringing together national leaders in the mental health 
community to discuss a specific topic each year, including 
promoting access to appropriate and affordable behav-
ioral health care services, improving the quality of such 
services, and reducing the stigma and isolation associated 
with mental health disorders and substance use disorders; 
Whereas The Carter Center’s Mental Health Program, estab-
lished in 1990 and continuing under the leadership and 
guidance of Mrs. Carter, strives to build consensus in 
order to effect positive change in mental health and sub-
stance use policy and systems, with a focus on vulnerable 
populations, including children and the elderly; 
Whereas, in 1996, Mrs. Carter established the Rosalynn Car-
ter Fellowships for Mental Health Journalism, which 
have provided training and support to more than 220 
journalists in the United States and abroad to report ac-
curately and sensitively about and reduce the stigma sur-
rounding mental health disorders, mental health care, 
mental health law and policy, and related issues; 
Whereas Mrs. Carter, in 2008, played a key role in sup-
porting the passage of the Paul Wellstone and Pete 
Domenici Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity 
20:58 Oct 06, 2020
HR1181
3 
•HRES 1181 IH 
Act, which helps ensure that mental health disorders and 
substance use disorders are covered by insurance at par-
ity with other illnesses; 
Whereas Mrs. Carter, who has long been a champion of the 
physical and mental health, strength, and resilience of 
family caregivers, established the Rosalynn Carter Insti-
tute for Caregiving in 1987, where she continues to serve 
as President of the Board of Directors; 
Whereas, throughout Mrs. Carter’s 50 years of advocacy for 
mental health, she has been an effective champion for the 
elimination of stigma and discrimination against people 
with mental health disorders, which are among the most 
common health conditions around the world; and 
Whereas, at 93 years of age, Mrs. Carter continues her de-
voted work to improving the lives of those affected by 
mental health disorders and substance use disorders in 
the United States and around the world: Now, therefore, 
be it 
Resolved, That the House of Representatives— 
1
(1) hereby expresses its profound gratitude, on 
2
behalf of the people of the United States, to 
3
Rosalynn Smith Carter for her lifetime of accom-
4
plishments and commitment on behalf of those af-
5
fected by mental health disorders and substance use 
6
disorders; 
7
(2) recognizes, praises, and appreciates the im-
8
provements in well-being and the betterment of soci-
9
ety Mrs. Carter’s contributions have engendered; 
10
and 
11
22:25 Oct 06, 2020
HR1181
4 
•HRES 1181 IH 
(3) encourages all people of the United States 
1
to follow Mrs. Carter’s example of putting compas-
2
sion into action through a lifetime of service to hu-
3
manity. 
4
Æ 
20:58 Oct 06, 2020
HR1181
