CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 
Directing the Joint Committee on the Library to revise the 
statue commemorating women’s suffrage which is located 
in the rotunda of the United States Capitol, commonly 
known as the ‘‘Portrait Monument’’, by placing on the 
statue an inscription which is based on the original in-
scription which was on the statue when the statue was 
delivered to the United States Capitol in 1921, and for 
other purposes. 
Whereas, on August 18, 1920, the 19th amendment to the 
Constitution was ratified, giving women in the United 
States the right to vote; 
21:57 May 24, 2019
HC44
khammond on DSKBBV9HB2PROD with BILLS
2 
•HCON 44 IH 
Whereas in recognition of this historic achievement, on Feb-
ruary 10, 1921, the National Woman’s Party presented 
to Congress a monument, commonly known as the ‘‘Por-
trait Monument’’, in honor of the pioneers of the suffrage 
movement that won women the right to vote; 
Whereas the monument was accepted on behalf of Congress 
by the Joint Committee on the Library; 
Whereas, on February 15, 1921, the 101st anniversary of the 
birth of Susan B. Anthony, an unveiling ceremony was 
held in the rotunda of the Capitol; 
Whereas sculpted by Adelaide Johnson and originally referred 
to as the Memorial to the Pioneers of the Woman’s Suf-
frage Movement, the monument includes busts of Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, and Lucretia 
Mott, as well as an uncarved marble block as a reminder 
that the work of women gaining equality was not com-
pleted with the passage of the 19th amendment; 
Whereas the original monument also included an inscription 
that read: 
‘‘Lucretia Mott, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. 
Anthony, the three great destiny characters of the world 
whose spiritual import and historical significance tran-
scend that of all others of any country or age. 
‘‘Lucretia Mott and Elizabeth Cady Stanton in the 
call of that first woman’s rights convention of 1848 initi-
ated and Susan B. Anthony marshalling the latent forces 
through three generations down more than a half cen-
tury of time guided the only fundamental universal up-
rising on our planet. The woman’s revolution. 
21:57 May 24, 2019
HC44
khammond on DSKBBV9HB2PROD with BILLS
3 
•HCON 44 IH 
‘‘Principle not policy; justice, not favor; men, their 
rights and nothing more; women, their rights and noth-
ing less, was the clarion call to the most astounding up-
heaval of all time. A call which waked the world, sig-
naled and inaugurated a revolution without tradition or 
precedent, and proclaimed the first incontrovertible con-
cept of human freedom—that of individual liberty—per-
sonal responsibility, including women. 
‘‘Woman, first denied a soul, then called mindless, 
now arisen declared herself an entity to be reckoned. 
‘‘This mightiest of revolutions encircling the globe 
accomplishing without bloodshed the overthrow of en-
trenched dogma and hoary bigotries reached to the far-
thermost roots of being. Here indeed was the first, the 
only impeachable demand for right as might ever made. 
‘‘Spiritually the woman movement is the all-enfold-
ing one. It represents the emancipation of womanhood. 
The release of the feminine principle in humanity. The 
moral integration of human evolution come to rescue 
torn and struggling humanity from its savage self. 
‘‘Historically these three stand unique and peer-
less.’’; 
Whereas shortly after it was unveiled in the Capitol in 1921, 
Congress moved the monument to the Capitol ‘‘Crypt’’, 
which was not open to the public at the time, and or-
dered that the inscription be removed from the monu-
ment; 
21:57 May 24, 2019
HC44
khammond on DSKBBV9HB2PROD with BILLS
4 
•HCON 44 IH 
Whereas at the time of the unveiling, the inscription was con-
sidered ‘‘blasphemous’’; 
Whereas the monument remained in the Capitol ‘‘Crypt’’ 
until Congress passed H. Con. Res. 216 on September 
27, 1996, directing the Architect of the Capitol to relo-
cate the monument to the Rotunda of the Capitol; 
Whereas, since May 14, 1997, the Portrait Monument has 
been on display in the rotunda of the Capitol; and 
Whereas the original Portrait Monument inscription was 
never restored or replaced: Now, therefore, be it 
Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate 
1
concurring), 
2
SECTION 1. RESTORATION OF ORIGINAL INSCRIPTION ON 
3
4
(a) RESTORATION.—Not later than one year after the 
5
date of the adoption of this resolution, the Joint Com-
6
mittee on the Library shall revise the statue commemo-
7
rating women’s suffrage located in the rotunda of the 
8
United States Capitol (commonly known as the ‘‘Portrait 
9
Monument’’) by placing on the statue an inscription which 
10
is based on the original inscription that was on the statue 
11
when the statue was delivered to the United States Capitol 
12
on February 10, 1921. 
13
(b) USE OF ROTUNDA OF UNITED STATES CAPITOL 
14
FOR UNVEILING CEREMONY.—The rotunda of the United 
15
States Capitol is authorized to be used on a date mutually 
16
agreed to by the Speaker of the House of Representatives 
17
21:57 May 24, 2019
HC44
khammond on DSKBBV9HB2PROD with BILLS
5 
•HCON 44 IH 
and the Majority Leader of the Senate for a ceremony to 
1
unveil the Portrait Monument as revised by the Joint 
2
Committee on the Library under subsection (a). The Ar-
3
chitect of the Capitol and the Capitol Police Board shall 
4
take such action as may be necessary with respect to phys-
5
ical preparations and security for the ceremony. 
6
(c) AUTHORIZATION
OF APPROPRIATIONS.—There 
7
are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
8
necessary to carry out this section. 
9
Æ 
21:57 May 24, 2019
HC44
khammond on DSKBBV9HB2PROD with BILLS
