RESOLUTION 
Condemning attacks on Judge Amy Coney Barrett. 
Whereas Amy Coney Barrett served as a law clerk in the 
United States Court of Appeals for the District of Co-
lumbia Circuit; 
Whereas Amy Coney Barrett served as a law clerk in the Su-
preme Court; 
Whereas Amy Coney Barrett served as a professor at Notre 
Dame School of Law for 15 years; 
Whereas, on May 8, 2017, President Donald J. Trump nomi-
nated Amy Coney Barrett to the United States Court of 
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit; 
04:40 Sep 30, 2020
HR1156
2 
•HRES 1156 IH 
Whereas, on October 31, 2017, Amy Coney Barrett was con-
firmed by the Senate to the United States Court of Ap-
peals for the Seventh Circuit with bipartisan support; 
Whereas, on September 26, 2020, President Donald J. 
Trump nominated Judge Amy Coney Barrett to the Su-
preme Court; 
Whereas Judge Amy Coney Barrett has successfully balanced 
faith, family, and professional responsibilities, including 
adopting two children from Haiti; 
Whereas Judge Amy Coney Barrett loves the Constitution 
and respects the original intent of America’s Founding 
Fathers in drafting the Constitution and Bill of Rights; 
Whereas, since the start of her Senate confirmation hearing 
in 2017, Judge Amy Coney Barrett has faced unwar-
ranted attacks on her constitutional right to exercise her 
religious faith; 
Whereas Senator Diane Feinstein attacked Judge Amy Coney 
Barrett’s faith during her 2017 Senate confirmation 
hearing by stating ‘‘the dogma lives loudly within you’’; 
Whereas Senator Mazie Hirono recently stated that Judge 
Amy Coney Barrett’s religious views should not be off- 
limits in the upcoming Supreme Court confirmation hear-
ings; 
Whereas in a recent Committee hearing in the House of Rep-
resentatives, a Member of Congress stated that ‘‘(Catho-
lics) shouldn’t have a monopoly on the bench’’; 
Whereas a recent Reuters Politics headline about Judge Amy 
Coney Barrett read: ‘‘Handmaid’s Tale? U.S. Supreme 
Court candidate’s religious community under scrutiny.’’; 
04:40 Sep 30, 2020
HR1156
3 
•HRES 1156 IH 
Whereas a Newsweek expose´ on a religious group that Judge 
Amy Coney Barrett belongs to was forced to print a cor-
rection because the headline of the article falsely stated 
that this group inspired ‘‘The Handmaid’s Tale’’; 
Whereas since Judge Amy Coney Barrett became a leading 
contender to fill the recently vacated seat on the Supreme 
Court, her family has come under increased attacks; 
Whereas a recent tweet from Ibram X. Kendi, a professor 
and author, attacked Judge Amy Coney Barrett’s deci-
sion to adopt two international children, reading, ‘‘Some 
White colonizers ‘adopted’ Black children. They ‘civilized’ 
these ‘savage’ children in the ‘superior’ ways of White 
people, while using them as props in their lifelong pic-
tures of denial, while cutting the biological parents of 
these children out of the picture of humanity.’’; 
Whereas John Lee Brougher, a director of a political action 
committee, tweeted, ‘‘As an adoptee, I need to know more 
about the circumstances of how Amy Coney Barrett came 
to adopt her children, and the treatment of them since. 
Transracial adoption is fraught with trauma and poten-
tial for harm, and everything I see here is deeply con-
cerning.’’; 
Whereas Ruth Ben-Ghiat, a historian, tweeted, ‘‘. . . many 
authoritarians seized children of color for adoption by 
White Christians. Pinochets’s regime did this with indige-
nous kids and Nazis took Aryan looking Poles for Ger-
man families. Trump takes migrant kids for adoption by 
Evangelicals.’’; 
Whereas Vanessa Grigoriadis, a podcast cofounder, tweeted, 
‘‘I guess one of the things I don’t understand about Amy 
Comey Barrett is how a potential Supreme Court justice 
04:40 Sep 30, 2020
HR1156
4 
•HRES 1156 IH 
can also be a loving, present mom to seven kids? Is this 
like the Kardashians stuffing nannies in the closet and 
pretending they’ve drawn their own baths for their kids’’; 
Whereas Dana Houle, a Democratic political consultant, 
tweeted, ‘‘So, here’s a Q: Does the press even investigate 
details of Barrett’s adoptions from Haiti? Some adop-
tions from Haiti were legit. Many were sketchy as hell. 
And if press learned they were unethical & maybe illegal 
adoptions, would they report it? Or not bc it involves her 
children’’; 
Whereas Judge Amy Coney Barrett has faced increasingly vi-
cious attacks on her character; and 
Whereas Diane Warren, a songwriter, tweeted, ‘‘Amy is like 
a hybrid of Aunt Lydia and a Stepford wife’’: Now, 
therefore, be it 
Resolved, That the House of Representatives— 
1
(1) condemns any attempt to impose an uncon-
2
stitutional religious test on Judge Amy Coney Bar-
3
rett or any other individual seeking election or ap-
4
pointment to public office; 
5
(2) condemns any attempt to disparage Judge 
6
Amy Coney Barrett’s constitutional right to exercise 
7
her religious faith; 
8
(3) condemns any attack on any member of 
9
Judge Amy Coney Barrett’s family or her selfless 
10
decision to adopt two children from Haiti; and 
11
04:40 Sep 30, 2020
HR1156
5 
•HRES 1156 IH 
(4) supports the Senate’s constitutional advise 
1
and consent process on the confirmation of Judge 
2
Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court. 
3
Æ 
04:40 Sep 30, 2020
HR1156
