RESOLUTION 
Requesting the President to strongly condemn Jamal 
Khashoggi’s killing, hold accountable individuals identi-
fied as culpable, and condemn imprisonment of and vio-
lence against journalists around the world. 
Whereas Jamal Khashoggi was a Saudi journalist born on 
October 13, 1958, who was murdered in the Saudi Ara-
bian consulate in Turkey on October 2, 2018; 
04:31 Jun 28, 2019
HR472
2 
•HRES 472 IH 
Whereas Mr. Khashoggi wrote for and edited a number of 
publications, including the Washington Post, Al Watan, 
Arab News, and Al Madina; 
Whereas, during his career, Mr. Khashoggi covered events in 
Afghanistan, Algeria, Kuwait, and across the Middle 
East; 
Whereas Mr. Khashoggi represented a rare example of a 
journalist in Saudi Arabia by questioning regime policies 
and covering unfavorable events; 
Whereas Mr. Khashoggi became a champion of American val-
ues, including democracy, freedom of the press, and wom-
en’s rights; 
Whereas Mr. Khashoggi openly questioned the Saudi regime’s 
policies, including its war in Yemen, crackdown on dis-
senters, and isolation of Qatar; 
Whereas voicing differences with Saudi Arabia’s rulers forced 
Mr. Khashoggi to flee Saudi Arabia; 
Whereas Mr. Khashoggi became a permanent resident of the 
United States in June 2017 and began writing for the 
Washington Post in September 2017; 
Whereas the Saudi regime targeted Mr. Khashoggi and his 
writings by marshaling a host of online trolls to 
delegitimize and harass Mr. Khashoggi and other Saudi 
dissidents; 
Whereas Saudi officials lured Mr. Khashoggi to the Saudi 
consulate in Istanbul under a false sense of security; 
Whereas upon arrival Mr. Khashoggi was tortured, killed, 
and dismembered by Saudi agents flown in from Saudi 
Arabia for this purpose; 
04:31 Jun 28, 2019
HR472
3 
•HRES 472 IH 
Whereas the Saudi regime subsequently engaged in a weeks- 
long campaign of obfuscation, deception, and lying to 
deny Saudi involvement in Mr. Khashoggi’s murder; 
Whereas, when confronted with clear evidence of Mr. 
Khashoggi’s death at the hands of Saudi agents, Saudi 
officials blamed the murder on rogue operators within its 
Government; 
Whereas the Trump administration subsequently sanctioned 
only relatively junior Saudi officials, many of whom had 
been identified as culpable by the Saudi regime; 
Whereas an independent report conducted by United Nations 
investigator Agnes Callamard concluded that there is 
‘‘sufficient credible evidence’’ that Saudi Arabia’s Crown 
Prince bears responsibility for the assassination and that, 
based on definitions in international law, the kingdom 
conducted Khashoggi’s ‘‘deliberate, premeditated execu-
tion’’; and that Saudi Arabia’s Crown Prince should face 
‘‘targeted sanctions . . . until and unless evidence is pro-
vided and corroborated that he carries no responsibilities 
for this execution.’’; 
Whereas President Trump has explicitly prioritized Saudi 
purchases of United States weaponry over the Saudi re-
gime’s murder of Mr. Khashoggi and continues to show 
disrespect for journalistic freedoms; 
Whereas Saudi Arabia’s leaders continue to crack down on 
dissenters and reforms, disregard basic rights, and per-
petrate destabilizing foreign policies; 
Whereas the Committee to Protect Journalists found that, in 
2018, there were at least 251 journalists imprisoned be-
cause of their work globally; 
04:31 Jun 28, 2019
HR472
4 
•HRES 472 IH 
Whereas, in 2018, Saudi Arabia imprisoned at least 16 jour-
nalists for their work; 
Whereas Turkey, China, and Egypt all imprison high num-
bers of journalists; 
Whereas, in 2018, the Committee to Protect Journalists 
found that there were at least 54 journalists killed glob-
ally, including in the United States; 
Whereas President Trump has been reluctant to condemn the 
killing and imprisonment of journalists generally and Mr. 
Khashoggi in particular; and 
Whereas President Trump has himself praised violence 
against journalists and called the media the ‘‘enemy of 
the American people’’: Now, therefore, be it 
Resolved, That the House of Representatives requests 
1
that the President— 
2
(1) strongly condemn Jamal Khashoggi’s killing 
3
and hold accountable individuals identified as cul-
4
pable by United States intelligence agencies; 
5
(2) condemn imprisonment of and violence 
6
against journalists around the world; 
7
(3) cease describing the media in terms that 
8
could encourage violence against journalists; and 
9
(4) use tools of United States power, including 
10
diplomacy, sanctions, and military sales, to encour-
11
age other countries to respect and further press free-
12
dom. 
13
Æ 
04:31 Jun 28, 2019
HR472
