RESOLUTION 
Rejecting White nationalism and White supremacy. 
Whereas, on January 10, 2019, Representative Steve King 
was quoted as asking, ‘‘White nationalist, white suprema-
cist, Western civilization—how did that language become 
offensive?’’; 
Whereas a 2006 Federal Bureau of Intelligence (FBI) assess-
ment defined a White supremacist as follows: ‘‘White su-
premacists believe that the white race is superior to all 
other races and was created to rule them. They view non- 
whites as subhuman and usually refer to them in deroga-
tory terms’’; 
Whereas the same 2006 FBI intelligence assessment defined 
a White nationalist as follows: ‘‘To be a white nationalist 
is to be pro-white. The domestic white nationalist move-
ment seeks to promote, honor, and defend the white race. 
23:43 Jan 14, 2019
HR41
2 
•HRES 41 IH 
They believe the white race is under attack from Jewish 
interests that dominate the government (referred to as 
the Zionist Occupied Government, or ZOG), the media, 
banking, and entertainment industries and act to the det-
riment of the white race. White nationalists view 
multiculturalism, diversity, and illegal immigration as di-
rect assaults on the white race and race-mixing as akin 
to white genocide. They hope to appeal to mainstream 
whites, believing that the majority of white people do not 
understand the imminent or long-term threat to their 
race. Many contend that a race war, often referred to as 
RAHOWA, or Racial Holy War, is a certainty’’; 
Whereas White supremacy and White nationalism are con-
trary to the ideals of the United States of America, which 
was established according to the principle stated in the 
Declaration of Independence that all men are created 
equal, a principle that was updated in 1848 in Seneca 
Falls, New York, to include all people; 
Whereas while our country has often fallen short of these 
ideals, patriotic Americans have sought to form a more 
perfect Union by rejecting White nationalism and White 
supremacy, embracing inclusive patriotism, and wel-
coming immigrants from across the globe who have con-
tinuously enriched our Nation; 
Whereas Abraham Lincoln in an 1858 speech said of the 
Founders, ‘‘Wise statesmen as they were, they knew the 
tendency of prosperity to breed tyrants, and so they es-
tablished these great self-evident truths, that when in the 
distant future some man, some faction, some interest, 
should set up the doctrine that none but rich men, or 
none but white men, were entitled to life, liberty, and 
pursuit of happiness, their posterity might look up again 
23:43 Jan 14, 2019
HR41
3 
•HRES 41 IH 
to the Declaration of Independence and take courage to 
renew the battle which their fathers began—so that 
truth, and justice, and mercy, and all the humane and 
Christian virtues might not be extinguished from the 
land; so that no man would hereafter dare to limit and 
circumscribe the great principles on which the temple of 
liberty was being built’’; 
Whereas Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., while recognizing that 
‘‘no other nation can mean to us what our nation 
means’’, condemned ‘‘nationalism perverted into chau-
vinism and isolationism’’ as ‘‘preached by . . . the advo-
cators of white supremacy’’ and asked, ‘‘Will we continue 
to serve the false god of racial prejudice or will we serve 
the God who made of one blood all men to dwell upon 
the face of the earth?’’; 
Whereas President Reagan observed in a 1988 speech, ‘‘Any-
one, from any corner of the Earth, can come to live in 
America and become an American . . . This, I believe, is 
one of the most important sources of America’s great-
ness. We lead the world because, unique among nations, 
we draw our people—our strength—from every country 
and every corner of the world. And by doing so we con-
tinuously renew and enrich our nation. While other coun-
tries cling to the stale past, here in America we breathe 
life into dreams. We create the future, and the world fol-
lows us into tomorrow. Thanks to each wave of new ar-
rivals to this land of opportunity, we’re a nation forever 
young, forever bursting with energy and new ideas, and 
always on the cutting edge, always leading the world to 
the next frontier. This quality is vital to our future as 
a nation. If we ever closed the door to new Americans, 
our leadership in the world would soon be lost’’; 
23:43 Jan 14, 2019
HR41
4 
•HRES 41 IH 
Whereas according to FBI statistics, hate crimes nationwide 
increased in 2015, 2016, and 2017, the three most recent 
years for which data is available; 
Whereas the perpetrator of the shooting that killed 9 African- 
American worshippers at Emanuel African Methodist 
Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina, on June 
17, 2015, was motivated by White supremacy and White 
nationalism to carry out this act of terrorism, and stated 
that he would ‘‘be rescued by white nationalists after 
they took over the government’’; 
Whereas the perpetrator of the shooting that killed 11 Jewish 
worshippers at Tree of Life synagogue in Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, on October 27, 2018, accused Jews of 
‘‘waging a propaganda war against Western civilization’’ 
and ‘‘committing genocide’’ against Whites by promoting 
immigration and refugee resettlement, and accused the 
President of being ‘‘a globalist, not a nationalist’’ because 
of the ‘‘infestation’’ of Jews; and 
Whereas Public Law 115–58, a joint resolution signed into 
law on September 14, 2017, rejects ‘‘white nationalism, 
white supremacists, the Ku Klux Klan, neo-Nazis, and 
other hate groups’’: Now, therefore, be it 
Resolved, That the House of Representatives once 
1
again rejects White nationalism and White supremacy as 
2
hateful expressions of intolerance that are contradictory 
3
to the values that define the people of the United States. 
4
Æ 
23:43 Jan 14, 2019
HR41
