RESOLUTION 
Directing the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee 
on Oversight and Government Reform, and the Com-
mittee on Financial Services to begin investigations re-
garding certain business dealings of Robert Hunter 
Biden during the period in which Joseph R. Biden, Jr. 
served as Vice President of the United States; whether 
those business dealings resulted in improper conflicts 
of interests; and whether Robert Hunter Biden’s work 
affected United States foreign policy or a foreign govern-
ment or foreign entity’s response thereto. 
01:22 Oct 16, 2019
HR631
2 
•HRES 631 IH 
Whereas, from 2009 to 2017, Joseph R. Biden, Jr. served as 
Vice President of the United States of America; 
Whereas since at least 2001, Robert Hunter Biden, the son 
of Vice President Joseph R. Biden, Jr., had engaged in 
work as a registered Federal lobbyist; 
Whereas immediately following the election of Joseph R. 
Biden, Jr. to the office of Vice President, press reports 
indicate that Robert Hunter Biden joined with Chris-
topher Heinz, the stepson of then Senate Foreign Affairs 
Committee Chairman John Kerry, and Devon Archer, a 
close Kerry family confidant, to form a network of invest-
ment and consulting firms with variations of the name 
‘‘Rosemont Seneca’’; 
Whereas press reports indicate that Rosemont Seneca pur-
sued multiple, foreign business investments ‘‘where con-
nections implied political influence and protection’’; 
Whereas during the period in which Joseph R. Biden, Jr. 
served as Vice President, the People’s Republic of China 
was a significant concern of United States foreign policy, 
including that country seeking to define its relationship 
with the United States in light of the so-called Obama 
Administration ‘‘Pivot to Asia’’; 
Whereas press reports indicate during this period, entities as-
sociated with Robert Hunter Biden and Rosemont Seneca 
engaged in multiple business transactions requiring high- 
level connections in the People’s Republic of China; 
Whereas, in December of 2013, Robert Hunter Biden accom-
panied Vice President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. on Air Force 
II on an official visit to the People’s Republic of China; 
Whereas press reports indicate that at the same time Robert 
Hunter Biden accompanied Joseph R. Biden, Jr. to the 
01:22 Oct 16, 2019
HR631
3 
•HRES 631 IH 
People’s Republic of China, ‘‘Rosemont Seneca Partners’’ 
was finalizing the formation of a private investment fund, 
BHR Partners, which was financially supported by the 
Bank of China, China Development Bank Capital, and 
other major Chinese financial institutions controlled by, 
owned by, or associated with the government of the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China; 
Whereas Robert Hunter Biden’s whereabouts during large 
portions of this official visit are largely unknown but, by 
his admission, did include at least one meeting with a 
Chinese banker who was a partner in BHR Partners; 
Whereas press reports indicate that within 10 days of Robert 
Hunter Biden’s official trip to China, Rosemont Seneca 
Partners received necessary Chinese licenses and closed 
the deal creating BHR Partners; 
Whereas during the period in which Joseph R. Biden, Jr. 
served as Vice President, Ukraine was a significant con-
cern of United States foreign policy, receiving substantial 
attention from the Obama Administration; 
Whereas, in 2014, the Obama Administration was actively 
engaged in the support of the Yatsenyuk government of 
Ukraine following the aftermath of the Ukrainian revolu-
tion and Vice President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. was de-
scribed as ‘‘at the forefront’’ of those efforts; 
Whereas, in April of 2014, Vice President Joseph R. Biden, 
Jr. specifically traveled to Ukraine as an official envoy of 
the Obama Administration and urged the Ukraine gov-
ernment to reduce its dependence on Russia for supplies 
of natural gas and, according to press, reports offered 
United States help in providing expertise on expanding 
Ukraine’s domestic natural gas production; 
01:22 Oct 16, 2019
HR631
4 
•HRES 631 IH 
Whereas Burisma Holdings is the largest natural gas produc-
tion company in Ukraine and was positioned to greatly 
benefit from United States policy pursued by Vice Presi-
dent Joseph R. Biden, Jr.; 
Whereas Burisma Holdings and its owner, oligarch Mykola 
Zlochevsky, have long faced allegations of corruption and 
illegal activities; 
Whereas, in April of 2014, the same month that Vice Presi-
dent Joseph R. Biden, Jr. traveled to Ukraine, Robert 
Hunter Biden, joined the board of Burisma Holdings; 
Whereas press reports indicate that Burisma Holdings paid 
more than $3,400,000 to ‘‘Rosemont Seneca Bohai LLC’’ 
and that Robert Hunter Biden personally received com-
pensation of up to $50,000 per month in his role relating 
to Burisma Holdings, despite having little to no experi-
ence that would be relevant in the natural gas industry; 
Whereas press reports indicate that Robert Hunter Biden’s 
work with Burisma Holdings allowed ‘‘Burisma to create 
the perception that it was backed by powerful Americans 
at a time when Ukraine was especially dependent on aid 
and strategic backing from the United States and its al-
lies’’; 
Whereas press reports indicate that Robert Hunter Biden’s 
work for Burisma Holdings during the period when Vice 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. was actively working on 
Ukrainian natural gas policy prompted concerns from 
State Department and other Obama Administration offi-
cials and that such concerns were communicated to Vice 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr.; 
01:22 Oct 16, 2019
HR631
5 
•HRES 631 IH 
Whereas the Prosecutor General of Ukraine’s duty under the 
Ukrainian political system is among other things to pros-
ecute on behalf of the state; 
Whereas it appears that the Ukrainian Prosecutor General’s 
office had been investigating Burisma Holdings and Mr. 
Zlochevsky in 2014; 
Whereas, in 2014, facing criminal allegations of misconduct 
by the Ukrainian Prosecutor General, press reports indi-
cate that Mr. Zlochevsky fled Ukraine; 
Whereas by his own account, in 2016 Vice President Joseph 
R. Biden, Jr. threatened Ukrainian President Petro 
Poroshenko that the United States would withhold 
$1,000,000,000 in United States loan guarantees if he 
did not immediately fire Prosecutor General Viktor 
Shokin; 
Whereas given the fragile state of the Ukrainian economy, 
withholding of United States assistance likely would have 
sent Ukraine into insolvency; 
Whereas by Vice President Joseph R. Biden, Jr.’s own ac-
count, based upon pressure applied by him, Shokin was 
fired; 
Whereas the firing of Prosecutor General Shokin could have 
affected investigations into Burisma Holdings; 
Whereas Mr. Shokin has allegedly sworn under affidavit that 
‘‘I was forced out because I was leading a wide-ranging 
corruption probe into Burisma Holdings, a natural gas 
firm active in Ukraine and [Vice President] Jo[seph] 
Biden’s son, [Robert] Hunter Biden, was a member of 
the Board of Directors’’; 
Whereas press reports indicate that Robert Hunter Biden’s 
business partners brought in Blue Star Strategies, a con-
01:22 Oct 16, 2019
HR631
6 
•HRES 631 IH 
sulting firm run by Clinton administration officials, to 
help fend off Ukrainian investigations of Burisma Hold-
ings; 
Whereas press reports indicate a team from Blue Star Strat-
egies and a former Obama Justice Department lawyer 
held undisclosed meetings with Mr. Shokin’s successor, 
Prosecutor General Yuriy Lutsenko, in May of 2016, 
shortly after he took office to replace Mr. Shokin; 
Whereas within 10 months of Mr. Lutsenko’s taking office, 
Burisma Holdings reported that all legal proceedings and 
pending criminal allegations against Burisma Holdings 
and Mr. Zlochevsky had been closed; 
Whereas significant business dealings of Robert Hunter 
Biden and Rosemont Seneca during the period in which 
Vice President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. served as Vice Presi-
dent likely remain unknown; and 
Whereas known allegations relating to Robert Hunter Biden’s 
work with Rosemont Seneca entities during a time when 
Vice President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. was actively engaged 
in foreign policy decisions of the United States raises se-
rious concerns regarding conflicts of interest and poten-
tial influence on United States foreign policy: Now, there-
fore, be it 
Resolved, that the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the 
1
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and the 
2
Committee on Financial Services are directed to begin im-
3
mediate investigations, within the bounds of their respec-
4
tive jurisdictions, into— 
5
(1) whether Robert Hunter Biden’s business 
6
dealings relating to Rosemont Seneca were ethical 
7
01:22 Oct 16, 2019
HR631
7 
•HRES 631 IH 
and proper given Vice President Joseph R. Biden, 
1
Jr.’s role in the foreign policy of the United States 
2
of America; 
3
(2) whether Robert Hunter Biden’s business 
4
dealings relating to Rosemont Seneca resulted in im-
5
proper conflicts of interests for Vice President Jo-
6
seph R. Biden, Jr; and 
7
(3) whether Robert Hunter Biden’s business 
8
dealings relating to Rosemont Seneca affected 
9
United States foreign policy or a foreign government 
10
or foreign entity’s response thereto. 
11
Æ 
01:22 Oct 16, 2019
HR631
